Full Article Fetch Test - TRU
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-13): -90980000.00

Title   : Gold, silver hit record highs after Trump threat of fresh China tariffs 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-10-13T12:50:29
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:27:21.502775
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/commodities/news/gold-silver-hit-record-highs-after-trump-threat-of-fresh-china-tariffs/articleshow/124527989.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Silver also jumped to an all-time peak, tracking gold's rally.
Spot gold was up 1.4% to $4,075.29 per ounce, as of 1215 GMT, after hitting a record of $4,084.75/oz.
U.S. gold futures for December delivery surged 2.4% to $4,094.90.
Trump reignited the U.S. trade war with China on Friday, threatening 100% tariffs on Chinese goods imports into the United States and announcing new export controls on critical software by November 1 in a reprisal against Beijing curbing exports of critical minerals.
However, Trump, posting on Truth Social on Sunday, wrote: "Don't worry about China, it will all be fine!"
Trade tensions remain a focus for markets, said UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo, adding that "while they have eased again between the U.S. and China, the 100% additional tariff threat remains".
"Ongoing strong investment and central bank demand should further support gold. We target a move to $4,200/oz," he added.
Spot silver jumped 2.4% to $51.48/oz, after hitting a record high of $51.70/oz, driven by similar factors as gold alongside tightness in the spot market.
Goldman Sachs said on Sunday that silver prices were expected to rise in the medium term due to private investment flows, but warned of heightened near-term volatility and downside risks compared to gold.
Bank of America raised its price forecasts on Monday for precious metals, lifting its 2026 outlook for gold to $5,000 an ounce and for silver to $65/oz.
On a technical basis, gold and silver's relative strength index stands at 80 and 83, respectively, indicating the metals are overbought.
Non-yielding bullion has gained 53% year-to-date, driven by geopolitical risks, alongside strong central bank gold buying, exchange-traded funds inflows, Fed rate cut expectations and economic uncertainties stemming from tariffs.
On the monetary policy front, traders are now pricing in a 25-basis-point cut each in October and December, with a 97% and 91% chance, respectively.
Fed Chair Jerome Powell has a chance to offer his guidance on monetary policy when he speaks on the economic outlook at the NABE annual meeting on Tuesday.
Several Fed officials are also scheduled to speak during the week.
Platinum rose 3.9% to $1,649.49 and palladium gained 2.7% to $1,443.08.
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

Title   : Bitcoin recovers 12% from weekend lows, Ethereum reclaims over $4,100 level post Trump’s China tariff shock 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-10-13T06:24:47
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:27:21.502894
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/cryptocurrency/crypto-news/bitcoin-recovers-12-from-weekend-lows-ethereum-reclaims-over-4100-level-post-trumps-china-tariff-shock/articleshow/124519391.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
As of 10:13 am IST, Ethereum was up by 8.67% at $4,134. Other major tokens—including BNB, XRP, Solana, Dogecoin, Tron, Cardano, and Hyperliquid—surged up to 14%. Overall, the crypto market capitalisation went up by 4.82% to $3.89 trillion, according to CoinMarketCap.
Also Read | Best flexi cap mutual funds to invest in October 2025
Edul Patel, CEO of Mudrex says that Bitcoin has recovered over 12% from the weekend lows, while Ethereum has reclaimed the $4000 level and hopes of possible de-escalation talks between the US and China, along with $259 million in short liquidations, have eased selling pressure, fueling the rally.
However, to confirm a sustained rally, BTC must move above the key resistance zone of $120,000, while support stands at $113,500. Any dovish signal from Jerome Powell on rate cuts during his Wednesday speech could further strengthen Bitcoin’s upward trajectory, Patel added.
According to a report by ET, a 100% tariff announcement on Chinese exports sent tremors through global markets over the weekend, triggering one of the most violent crypto sell-offs on record and wiping out nearly one trillion dollars off the crypto market in less than 24 hours.
In his statement, Trump accused China of taking an unprecedented position by restricting the export of materials vital to global technology manufacturing. The move, he said, left the US with no choice but to respond in kind.
“Starting November 1st, 2025, or sooner depending on China’s actions, the United States of America will impose a tariff of 100 percent on China,” the president wrote.
Bitcoin plunged from above $125,000 to below $104,000 within hours, while Ethereum dropped 11% to around $3,878. Major altcoins such as XRP, Dogecoin, and Cardano also faced heavy selling, losing up to 30% amid what traders described as a cascade of leveraged liquidations across the crypto market, said the ET report.
Data from CoinGlass showed that over $20 billion worth of leveraged positions were wiped out in just 24 hours, the largest single-day liquidation event in the history of cryptocurrency trading. Roughly 1.6 million traders had their positions forcibly closed, with the majority holding long bets on Bitcoin and Ethereum, the ET report added.
In the last one week, Bitcoin and Ethereum have edged down by 7.35% and 8.75% respectively.
Also Read | Gold and Silver ETFs together constitute 72% of total passive mutual funds inflow : AMFI
Sathvik Vishwanath, Co-Founder & CEO, Unocoin, said that Bitcoin briefly plunged nearly 9% following Donald Trump’s aggressive tariff threats against China, triggering a broad risk-off move, and the drop saw BTC fall below key support at $108,000, touching $104,700, where it met the 50-day moving average—acting as dynamic support.
While sharing technical analysis, Vishwanath added that, “RSI dipped into oversold territory, prompting a swift rebound. Within hours, BTC reclaimed $110,000 as Trump softened his tone and reaffirmed crypto-friendly policies, including a proposed “Crypto Strategic Reserve.” The quick recovery was fueled by institutional dip-buying and short liquidations. Technically, Bitcoin remains in a bullish structure, consolidating below $123,000 resistance, with momentum favouring upside if macro conditions stabilise.”
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

Title   : Divisions aside, Tata Trusts keen to keep Tata Sons private
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-13T00:15:07
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:27:21.505051
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/tata-sons-owner-retains-the-decision-to-keep-the-holding-company-private-11760263865309.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Divisions aside, Tata Trusts keen to keep Tata Sons private
However, Tata Trusts is still open to giving an exit to the SP Group over a mutually agreeable period, provided its own interests are maintained. Here's what explains Tata Trusts discomfort with a listed Tata Sons.
Tata Trusts remains committed to its decision to keep Tata Sons private, two Tata executives told Mint, hours after the Shapoorji Pallonji Group issued a public statement seeking a public share sale of the Tata Group holding company.
An initial public offering (IPO) will dilute Tata Trusts' shareholding, weaken its voting rights and limit its ability to influence key decisions at Tata Sons, the executives said on the condition of anonymity. Tata Trusts holds nearly 66% in Tata Sons, the holding company of the $300 billion Tata Group, India's largest conglomerate. Debt-ridden SP Group is the biggest individual shareholder, with 18.37% stake.
However, Tata Trusts is still open to giving an exit to the SP Group over a mutually agreeable period, provided its own interests are maintained, one of the two executives said. “We remain open to providing an orderly exit for the SP Group while safeguarding the Tata Group’s interests."
Article 75 of the Tata Sons Articles of Association gives Tata Trusts the right to buy out SP Group, a provision the latter agreed to when it obtained control of shares in Tata Sons in 1964, the executive said.
Tata Sons on 30 September crossed a central bank deadline for an IPO, seen by the SP Group as an opportunity to sell its shares and reduce its crushing debt. Currently, SP Group cannot sell its Tata Sons shares, constrained by the company's Articles of Association.
Despite reports that at least one trustee is in favour of a Tata Sons IPO to help the SP Group, this isn't the official stance of the Trusts yet, the two executives said. Mint could not ascertain if the said trustee discussed his view with others.
“There is no change of strategy," said the second executive, dismissing any softening in stance. The Trusts have already asked Tata Sons to work to stay private, and negotiate an exit for SP Group.
Tata Trusts is manned by seven trustees—chairman Noel Tata, TVS Motor Corp. chairman emeritus Venu Srinivasan; retired defence secretary Vijay Singh; Mumbai-based lawyer Darius Khambata; businessman Mehli Mistry; Citibank India former CEO Pramit Jhaveri; and Pune-based philanthropist and businessman Jehangir H.C. Jehangir.
The first executive questioned the rationale behind the SP Group's demand made after the Trust's meeting on Friday. He said the group's challenges are "self-inflicted", and that a Tata Sons IPO would not help overcome them.
Queries emailed to the Tata Trusts and SP Group remained unanswered.
“The issue here is that SP Group is demanding that Tata Sons go public so that it can get money to tide over its own debt problems. Now, if SP Group has given an undertaking to the Tatas that they have the right to buy its stake and if this has been upheld by the Supreme Court judgement in 2021 in the case of Cyrus Mistry Versus Tata Group, then what is the merit in making this demand?" said senior Supreme Court lawyer H.P. Ranina.
“Anyone can demand anything. Let them demand. Tatas should ignore it," said Ranina.
It is mandatory for publicly listed companies to secure the approval of a majority of minority shareholders to make key decisions. So, Tata Trusts won't have unfettered decision-making powers at Tata Sons if it is listed.
Sir Ratan Tata Trusts passed a resolution dated 28 July that the chairman of Tata Sons should not change its current status as an unlisted private company and that Tata Sons fully engage with the Reserve Bank of India in this regard, Mint reported earlier.
Sir Ratan Tata Trust and Sir Dorabji Tata Trust together own over 51% of Tata Sons, with additional stakes held by JRD Tata Trust, Tata Education Trust, Tata Social Welfare Trust, MK Tata Trust, and Sarvajanik Seva Trust. Shapoorji Pallonji Group owns 18.38%, nine Tata Group companies hold 12.86%, and seven individuals account for the remaining 2.87%.
On Friday, SP Group made a rare public statement asking for Tata Sons to go public. Aloo Mistry, sister of SP Group chairman Shapoor Mistry, is Tata Trusts chairman Noel Tata's wife.
“The public listing of Tata Sons is not merely a financial step — it is a moral and social imperative," read a statement from the SP Group. It would unlock significant value for over 12 million shareholders of listed Tata companies, who are indirect shareholders of Tata Sons, it said.
The statement invoked the Tata Group’s founder Jamsetji Tata, saying a listing would uphold the spirit of transparency envisioned by its founding father.
The statement also acknowledged the recent developments at Tata Trusts, where differences have surfaced among the trustees. “In light of the recent developments pertaining to the internal matters of Tata Trusts, it is both timely and necessary to reiterate our long-standing position," read a SP Group statement.
SP Group is insisting that Tata Sons go public as it could sell its stake and use the proceeds to pay back its creditors. Mint independently could not ascertain the debt of the SP group. However, in May, SP Group raised $3.3 billion (about Rs28,500 crore) from private creditors by issuing non-convertible debentures at an eye-watering interest rate of 19.75%. SP Group has 9.185% or half of its Tata stake, in addition to pledging shares in its privately-held real estate business as collateral as part of this transaction.

Title   : Dow Jones soars 500 points, Nasdaq, S&P 500 up 1% after Trump cools rhetoric on China 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-10-13T13:36:07
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:27:21.506422
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/dow-jones-soars-500-points-nasdaq-sp-500-up-1-after-trump-cools-rhetoric-on-china/articleshow/124528974.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 501.83 points, or 1.10%, to 45,981.43, the S&P 500 gained 81.48 points, or 1.24%, reaching 6,633.98, and the Nasdaq climbed 342.13 points, or 1.54%, to 22,546.56.
“Don’t worry about China,” Trump said on his social media platform Sunday. He also said that China’s leader, Xi Jinping, “doesn’t want Depression for his country, and neither do I. The U.S.A. wants to help China, not hurt it!!!”
It was a sharp turnaround from the anger Trump displayed on Friday, when he accused China of “ a moral disgrace in dealing with other Nations." He pointed to “an extremely hostile letter” describing curbs to exports of rare earths, which are materials used in the manufacturing of everything from personal electronics to jet engines. Trump said at the time that he may place an additional 100% tax on imports from China starting on Nov. 1.
Trump’s backtrack in anger raised hopes that the world’s two largest economies may find a working relationship that allows global trade to continue.
The market’s big moves the last two days echo its manic swings in April, when Trump shocked investors with his “Liberation Day” announcement of worldwide tariffs, only to eventually relent on many to give time to negotiate trade deals with other countries.
If this time ends up similarly, with trade tensions and uncertainty subsiding, potentially even after a sharp drop for stock prices, conditions could allow for a rolling recovery to continue into 2026, according to Morgan Stanley strategists led by Michael Wilson.
To be sure, the U.S. stock market may have been primed for a drop and was just looking for a potential trigger.
It was already facing criticism that prices had shot too high following the S&P 500’s nearly relentless 35% run from a low in April. The index, which dictates the movements for many 401(k) accounts, is still near its all-time high set last week.
Not only did Trump's backdown from tariffs in April help launch stock prices, so did expectations for several cuts to interest rates by the Federal Reserve to help the economy.
Critics say the market looks too expensive now after prices rose much faster than corporate profits. Worries are particularly high about companies in the artificial-intelligence industry, where pessimists see echoes of the 2000 dot-com bubble that imploded. For stocks to look less expensive, either their prices need to fall, or companies’ profits need to rise.
That’s raising the stakes in the upcoming earnings reporting season for U.S. companies, which are set to say how much profit they made during the summer. JPMorgan Chase, Johnson & Johnson and United Airlines are some of the big names on the calendar for this week.
Fastenal tumbled 4.5% for one of the biggest losses in the S&P 500 after reporting profit for the latest quarter that was slightly weaker than analysts expected.
In stock markets abroad, indexes were mixed in Europe following sharp losses in Asia.
Stocks fell 1.5% in Hong Kong and 0.2% in Shanghai. China reported its global exports rose 8.3% in September from a year earlier, the strongest growth in six months and further evidence that its manufacturers are shifting sales from the U.S. to other markets.
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

