Full Article Fetch Test - PAR
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-13): 33.28M

Title   : French yields edge up; focus on Paris politics, US tariffs 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-10-13T08:38:55
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:20:55.244701
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/bonds/french-yields-edge-up-focus-on-paris-politics-us-tariffs/articleshow/124521959.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In Lecornu's new cabinet line-up, most top jobs remained unchanged, although he did appoint Roland Lescure - a close ally of President Emmanuel Macron - as finance minister.
The yield on benchmark 10-year French OATs was 1.8 basis points higher at 3.484% in early trading, having ended last week's volatile trading with a 3.3-bp decline.
Euro zone government bond yields rose on Monday as investors took a breather after a sharp fall late Friday triggered by U.S. President Donald Trump's threat of a "massive" hike in tariffs on Chinese imports.
"We are not optimistic and still see early elections as the most probable outcome," Jefferies strategist Mohit Kumar said.
"Our worry remains that the political uncertainty would lead to a further rating downgrade from either Moody's (24th October) and/or S&P (28th November), which would lead to forced selling from Asian accounts. We retain our underweight position in France," he said.
Market sentiment was jolted late last week, when U.S. President Donald Trump threatened 100% tariffs on imports of Chinese goods, in retaliation for Beijing announcing additional rare earth export controls.
Trump appeared to soften his stance over the weekend, giving a fresh boost to investor risk appetite, which dented the appeal of safe-haven government bonds.
German 10-year Bund yields were up 1.6 bps at 2.651%, having fallen 6.6 bps last week, the largest weekly decline since late March.
With public holidays in Japan and the United States, overall trading volume across the bond market is likely to be thinner.
Commerzbank estimates around 38 billion euros ($44.18 billion) of supply is hitting the market this week, with Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Greece and Spain on the docket.
The French government will tap its May 2030 bond on Thursday and demand metrics will likely come under scrutiny given the current political backdrop in the euro zone's second-largest economy, behind Germany.
($1 = 0.8601 euros)
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

Title   : AI-powered fintech platform GoodScore raises $13 million in Series A funding led by Peak XV Partners
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-13T12:58:26
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:20:55.245634
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/money-and-banking/ai-powered-fintech-platform-goodscore-raises-13-million-in-series-a-funding-led-by-peak-xv-partners/article70158564.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GoodScore, a Bengaluru-based AI-powered fintech platform, has raised $13 million in Series A funding, led by Peak XV Partners, with participation from existing investors Stellaris Venture Partners and Saison Capital.
GoodScore plans to use the funds raised to deepen its AI-led advisory offerings, expand its tech, product and operations teams, and further enhance its credit marketplace, connecting borrowers and lenders across India.
Founded in 2023 by Sanchit Bansal, GoodScore enables users to manage their credit health through personalised, AI-driven insights and expert guidance, helping them improve their credit scores and manage their borrowings.
Fintech NBFCs now account for nearly three-fourths of all personal loans by count, and delinquencies are rising as borrowers stretch themselves thin. As of March 2025, personal loans overdue by more than 90 days rose to 3.6 per cent, a six-quarter high, while credit-card dues overdue for 91-360 days surged 44 per cent year-on-year to nearly ₹34,000 crore. This spike can be linked to borrowers holding three or more unsecured loans simultaneously, creating a need for responsible credit management tools that bring visibility, control and discipline back to consumers’ financial lives.
GoodScore offers an integrated, AI-powered credit management platform that brings together credit bureau data, transactional insights, and behavioural patterns to deliver real-time credit monitoring, personalised score improvement guidance, and repayment tracking, all in one place. The platform also features AI-led educational content, spend tracking, and access to human experts, helping users make smarter financial decisions, improve their credit scores and maintain healthy credit habits.
Sanchit Bansal, Founder, GoodScore, said: “We started GoodScore with the belief that managing credit shouldn’t be as stressful or confusing as it is today. We wish to change how Indians interact with credit by bringing every user’s credit life into one view, helping them understand their loans, track payments and make informed, data-driven financial decisions. Our goal is to make responsible credit management a mainstream habit for millions of Indians.”
Borrower base
Ishaan Mittal, Managing Director, Peak XV, “India has an active borrower base of over 250 million consumers. GoodScore is on a mission to empower them by putting them in charge of their credit health. They can track scores, take actionable steps to resolve bureau disputes and manage repayments seamlessly. GoodScore is not just helping users improve scores, it is unlocking credit access and fueling true financial inclusion in India. We are proud to be a part of this mission with Sanchit and team.”
Mayank Jain, Principal, Stellaris Venture Partners, said, “Having known Sanchit for over a decade, I have seen firsthand his deep customer-backwards orientation and product-first mindset. That conviction made it natural for us to back him from day zero, and it is reflected in GoodScore’s formidable customer NPS and trust among users. The company’s strong traction today reflects the rising importance of credit health in India, with COVID serving as a key catalyst in this shift. As a partner since 2023, Stellaris has been privileged to support GoodScore’s journey, and we look forward to the continued impact they will create.”
Since its launch, GoodScore has rapidly scaled to millions of active users pan-India, with strong adoption across Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities.
Published on October 13, 2025

Title   : Ranjan Pai-backed Esencia Partners buys ₹165 crore Lavelle Road property
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-13T13:19:20
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:20:55.246141
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/real-estate/ranjan-pai-backed-esencia-partners-buys-165-crore-lavelle-road-property/article70158220.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Esencia Partners, backed by Ranjan Pai, Group Chairman, Manipal Education and Medical Group (MEMG) has acquired a 25,824 sq. ft property on Lavelle Road for ₹165.6 crore, in one of the city’s most expensive real estate transactions this year, according to data sources from real estate data analytics firm Zapkey.
The seller, Australian national Mira Angeline Cummins, transferred the centrally located site to Esencia Partners, represented by Pai.
“This transaction on Lavelle Road is one of the most significant real estate deals in Bengaluru this year,” said Sandeep Reddy, cofounder of Zapkey.“ At about ₹64,150 per sq. ft, it underscores the scarcity of independent land parcels in the city’s core and the sustained confidence from ultra-high-net-worth individuals in Bengaluru’s long-term property value.”
Published on October 13, 2025

Title   : Warner Bros rejected Paramount's ‘too low’ $20/share takeover offer, says report
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-12T03:03:55
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:20:55.247077
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/warner-bros-is-said-to-rebuff-paramount-takeover-approach-11760238236226.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Film and television giant Warner Bros Discovery Inc. has reportedly rejected the initial takeover offer proposed by David Ellison led Paramount Skydance for being “too low”, Bloomberg reported citing sources.
Paramount’s offered around $20 per share in recent weeks, the sources added.
Paramount and Warner Bros. spokespeople declined to comment, as per the report.
As per the report, Paramount has several options, including upping its bid, finding an additional partner for finance or appealing directly to shareholders, they added.
This comes after CNBC recently reported that the two companies were in talks, but price was a sticking point. It also noted that Paramount could make its offer public to shareholders to pressure Warner Bros.
Warner Bros. shares closed at $17.10 on October 10, giving the company a market value of $42.3 billion. Paramount shares were at $17 a share, valuing it at $18.6 billion.
Notably, David Ellison is the son of billionaire Larry Ellison. He took over Paramount, the parent of CBS, Nickelodeon, MTV and the namesake movie studio, in August 2025 after completing an $8 billion merger with his film production company Skydance Media.
Paramount has been in talks with alternative asset manager Apollo Global Management about backing its bid, Bloomberg News reported last week.
Ellison said at the Bloomberg Screentime conference last week that he couldn’t comment on Warner Bros. specifically, but he did make the case for more industry mergers.
Warner Bros. plans to split into two businesses, one focused on cable TV and the other on streaming and studios, in a deal expected to be completed next year.
Warner Bros. CEO David Zaslav believes he can get a hefty premium for his streaming and studios businesses once they’re separated from the debt-laden cable networks, Bloomberg News previously reported. To clinch a deal, Ellison will have to convince him that he isn’t leaving money on the table by selling before that happens.
(With inputs from Bloomberg)
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesNewsWarner Bros rejected Paramount's ‘too low’ $20/share takeover offer, says report

Title   : Kerala to set up ‘Women Industrial Park’ to promote female entrepreneurs
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-13T13:01:48
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:20:55.264317
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/kerala-to-set-up-women-industrial-park-to-promote-female-entrepreneurs/article70158394.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Kerala State government has announced the establishment of a ‘Women Industrial Park’, exclusively for women entrepreneurs, said State Industries Minister P Rajeeve.
The initiative is aimed at elevating women entrepreneurs to the next phase of growth and development, the Minister said while inaugurating the Kerala Women Entrepreneurs’ Conclave, 2025, in Thrissur.
Noting that a significant number of women are coming up as entrepreneurs, he said that women now constitute 31 per cent of the total entrepreneurs registered during the Year of Entrepreneurship.
The Industries Department has launched ‘Mission 1000’ – an ambitious initiative aimed at transforming 1,000 MSMEs into enterprises with an annual turnover of ₹1 crore each. So far, 444 enterprises have been selected under this mission.
Changes to rules
To further promote women entrepreneurs, the government has introduced key amendments to existing regulations. Under the revised norms, up to 50 per cent of residential houses in panchayats can now be converted for business purposes, while 100 per cent of vacant houses can be utilised to start enterprises. The government will also ensure necessary skill development support for women entrepreneurs.
Additionally, the Industries Department is providing financial assistance to help entrepreneurs showcase their products at international exhibitions. The Minister also said that women entrepreneurs are being encouraged to leverage e-commerce platforms to enhance their online market presence.
Over 1,200 women entrepreneurs from various districts participated in the conclave, where the Single Window System — providing all the necessary support for starting a business under one roof — emerged as a major attraction. Entrepreneurs had the opportunity to directly connect with banks, financial institutions, UDYAM, KSWIFT, GST, and e-commerce platforms through dedicated government help desks.
Panel discussions were also held on topics such as ‘The Role of Women in Technology-Driven Production’ and ‘Support Schemes for Women Entrepreneurs from Central and State Governments’.
Published on October 13, 2025

Title   : EQT scraps Zelestra India sale, brings in O2's Parag Sharma to lead $600 mn push
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-12T12:37:48
Fetched : 2025-10-13T16:20:55.264857
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/eqt-drops-zelestra-india-sale-plan-to-invest-another-600-million-brings-in-former-o2-power-chief-parag-sharma-as-ceo-11760265916880.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EQT scraps Zelestra India sale, brings in O2's Parag Sharma to lead $600 mn push
The alternative asset manager will carve out Zelestra India as a separate company and plans to develop it on the lines of O2 Power, which was sold to JSW Group last December.
New Delhi: European alternative asset manager EQT has dropped the plan to sell renewable developer Zelestra’s India operations and instead transferred it to its Asia Pacific infrastructure team headed by Hong Kong-based partner Ken Wong.
EQT will also invest around $600 million to develop the portfolio and has brought in Parag Sharma, former chief executive officer (CEO) and co-founder of EQT—and Temasek-backed O2 Power, to head the company, replacing incumbent CEO Sajay K.V., said four people aware of the development.
Zelestra had hired JP Morgan to run the sale process for its India operations, eyeing a deal with an equity and enterprise value of $184 million and $421 million, respectively. Mint earlier reported that the world’s largest alternative asset manager Blackstone was looking to acquire Zelestra’s Indian operations.
The new plan is to carve out Zelestra India as a separate company and build it on similar lines as O2 Power, which was sold to JSW Neo Energy in December last year for an enterprise value of $1.47 billion.
“EQT is not selling Zelestra India now. The plan is to build another O2 Power. While the sale process run by JP Morgan was on, it was decided that EQT’s Asia Pacific team would take Zelestra India forward on similar lines as was done for O2 Power," said one of the four people cited above, requesting anonymity. “It will still be housed under the EQT Infrastructure V fund, but placed under a different partner. The plan is to infuse another $600 million in expanding Zelestra India portfolio."
The second person cited above, who also did not want to be named, said, “EQT Asia infrastructure team is carving out Zelestra India operations out of Zelestra and will run it as a portfolio company."
Sharma, who has already joined Zelestra India as its new CEO, declined to comment. Sajay K.V. did not respond to phone calls or a message left on his cellphone.
Spokespersons for EQT, Zelestra, JP Morgan and Blackstone declined to comment.
Zelestra India has an operational capacity of 600 megawatt (MW), with an additional 2 gigawatt (GW) contracted portfolio, of which 1.5GW is under construction. The green energy platform is targeting 8.6GW capacity by 2031.
Sajay K.V. had taken over as the CEO of Zelestra’s Indian business unit in December 2023, after stints with BrightNight Power, Hero Future Energies, Siemens Gamesa and Vestas.
EQT has €273 billion in assets under management. Zelestra has a 29GW of global portfolio in 13 countries and has been present in India since 2015.
India’s green energy capacity addition has been on an upward trajectory. With a solar power sector potential of 748GW, India has an installed renewable energy capacity of 245GW, of which solar and wind power account for 116GW and 52GW, respectively. The country plans to add 50GW of green energy capacity annually to reach 500GW by 2030. Given the nation’s green energy transition trajectory and the net-zero target by 2070, the plan is to add 1,800GW of renewable energy capacity by 2047 and 5,000GW by 2070.
This large scale of India’s green energy space has opened up mergers and acquisitions (M&A) opportunities and attracted global and domestic investor interest.
“The power sector led M&A activity worth US$8.5 billion, driven largely by the renewable energy sector's growth," wrote EY in a 13 August report.
“The renewable energy sector in India alone contributed around 80% of the power sector’s total, marking a significant increase from US$3.2 billion in H1 2024 and US$2.8 billion in H2 2024, indicating a strong interest in sustainable investments," the EY report said.
“India is now recognized as the world’s fourth-largest renewable energy market, having attracted over US$4 billion in FDI in the past year alone… The presence of over 60 marquee global investors, a strong track record of profitable exits and a progressive policy framework are accelerating the shift towards the next level of growth in renewable energy," the report said.

