Full Article Fetch Test - IT
================================================================================

Title   : Infosys wins £1.2 billion NHS contract; signals revival for Indian IT
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-14T14:53:20
Fetched : 2025-10-15T07:54:44.761170
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/info-tech/infosys-wins-12-billion-nhs-contract-signals-revival-for-indian-it/article70163566.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Infosys has announced that it has been awarded a £1.2 billion (approx. $1.6 billion) 15-year contract by the NHS Business Services Authority (NHSBSA) to deliver the Future NHS Workforce Solution. This deal ranks among the largest announced by Infosys in recent times.
Siddharth Maurya, Founder and Managing Director, Vibhavangal Anukulakara Private Ltd , shared that winning a large deal indicates the company is experiencing an increase in client spending and demand for digital and AI transformation projects.
“This not only boosts the company’s total contract value, but is also a sign of the continued recovery trend in the Indian IT services market, which has been seeing a period of demand stagnation. It also provides evidence of Infosys’ strong business execution and ability to provide seamless, cost-efficient technology services to large global companies,” he said.
For the second quarter, Infosys is expected to outperform its counterparts, with a stable performance that can be attributed to deal ramp-ups and a gradual recovery in the discretionary IT spending in primary markets.
As part of this deal, Infosys will develop a data-driven workforce management solution that will replace the current Electronic Staff Record (ESR) system and continue to pay 1.9 million NHS employees in England and Wales over £55 billion in payroll annually.
The Future NHS Workforce Solution supports the NHS 10-year Health Plan and the mission to create a workforce that is fit for the future. This will be achieved through investment in infrastructure for the NHS workforce with a modern and future-proof solution, giving healthcare workers the tools they need to free up time to continue delivering patient care.
Advanced technologies
Powered by advanced technologies, the new solution will deliver a modern, flexible, and integrated platform that supports the entire employee lifecycle - from recruitment and onboarding to payroll, career development, and retirement. With intuitive, AI-driven tools, it will streamline workforce planning and enable data-driven decision-making, creating a seamless and user-friendly experience for the NHS staff.
Additionally, the solution will empower the NHS workforce to manage their personal information with ease, saving them valuable time. It will also enable seamless integration with other systems, improving the user experience and boosting operational efficiency.
Salil Parekh, CEO and MD, Infosys, said, “The NHS is a cornerstone of life in the UK, providing vital services that touch the lives of millions every day. With our extensive experience in delivering digital transformation and organizational change for global entities, combined with elements of our AI offering - Infosys Topaz, we will deliver a platform that not only drives efficiency today but empowers the NHS to elevate its invaluable work into the future.”
The company’s shares closed at ₹1,489.80 on the BSE, down by 0.21 per cent on Tuesday.
Published on October 14, 2025

Title   : IIT-Madras Pravartak, BodhBridge launch free entrepreneurship training programmes
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-14T13:31:45
Fetched : 2025-10-15T07:54:44.761288
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/education/iit-madras-pravartak-bodhbridge-launch-free-entrepreneurship-training-programmes/article70162124.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
IIT-Madras housed Pravartak Technologies Foundation is partnering educational services company BodhBridge, to launch free entrepreneurship training programmes for students and working professionals.
Under the partnership two entrepreneurship initiatives - ‘From Students to Startup’ for college students and working professionals and ‘Discover the Entrepreneur in You’ for school students — will be launched to equip young minds with the knowledge, mindset and skills to explore entrepreneurial opportunities.
The programmes will be offered in online mode and will include sessions from experts, course materials and case studies besides access to the recorded sessions. The training program and the material are offered free of cost.
The first batch will commence on 1st November 2025. The last date to register for the programmes is 28 October 2025.
Published on October 14, 2025

Title   : THIS 32-year-old billionaire leads with 13.22 lakh LinkedIn followers. It's not Alakh Pandey, nor Meesho's Vidit Aatrey
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-14T08:43:28
Fetched : 2025-10-15T07:54:44.761375
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/people/ritesh-agarwal-32-year-old-billionaire-leads-with-13-22-lakh-linkedin-followers-alakh-pandey-meeshos-vidit-aatrey-11760426590238.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Recognising young leaders and entrepreneurs, Hurun India recently released the latest “Under 35” list as a part of the Avendus Wealth – Hurun India Uth Series 2025. Although several of India’s top business leaders have built successful empires but some exercise more influence and social media dominance than others.
Neither Physics Wallah's Alakh Pandey, nor Meesho's Vidit Aatrey topped in terms of digital reach. The highest rank in “The Most Followed Minds of India’s U35 Club” was secured by 32-year-old billionaire Ritesh Agarwal of PRISM with 13.22 lakh LinkedIn followers. Occupying the second spot, Alakh Pandey boasts 4.65 lakh followers while Vidit Aatrey secured the third position with 3.01 followers.
The press release list states, “Other prominent names in the top 10 include Prabhkiran Singh (Bewakoof), Ajinkya Kulkarni (Wint Wealth), Shashank Kumar (Razorpay), Gaurav Khatri (Noise), Pawan Kumar Chandana (Skyroot Aerospace), Harshil Mathur (Razorpay) and Rahul Attuluri (NxtWave).”
The founder and CEO of hospitality chain named PRISM, Ritesh Agarwal's fame can be attributed to his appearance as a panellist on Shark Tank India Season 3 in 2024. According to the latest Hurun Rich List, Ritesh Agarwal's net worth in 2025 is estimated at ₹14,400 crore, marking a significant increase from last year's ₹1,900 crore.
Besides leading as social media icon, Ritesh emerged as India’s Young Disruptors, a pivotal figure in the “Next Wave of Innovation at 31” as per the Hurun India list. Carrying the next-generation baton in established enterprises, Ritesh secured 9th rank.
Celebrating the country’s young-seasoned entrepreneurs and next-generation leaders, Hurun India listed Ritesh Agarwal at 6th spot as one of the “Most Experienced U35 Leaders.” Another remarkable achievement of the company run by Odisha born businessman was that of securing second spot among the maximum number of “Funding Rounds Driven by U35 Startups.” Furthermore, PRISM dominates the U35-led startup landscape in terms of the “Most Funded U35 Startups.” Ritesh Agarwal's PRISM raised $3.7 bilion in equity funding in the year in consideration.
His LinkedIn profile description states, “With the early support of The Thiel Fellowship, I have been able to innovate and disrupt the hospitality industry. Seeking to bring budget accommodation for travellers that can be booked instantly, Ritesh boasts "skills in customer relationship management, strategic partnerships, and leadership, while expanding PRISM's presence across 35 countries.”
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesPeopleTHIS 32-year-old billionaire leads with 13.22 lakh LinkedIn followers. It's not Alakh Pandey, nor Meesho's Vidit Aatrey

Title   : Goldman Tells Staff It Will Cut More Jobs as AI Saves Costs
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-15T06:37:15
Fetched : 2025-10-15T07:54:44.761696
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/goldman-tells-staff-it-will-cut-more-jobs-as-ai-saves-costs-11760510236225.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(Bloomberg) -- Goldman Sachs Group Inc. told staffers to expect an additional round of job cuts this year as the bank seeks further savings across its businesses and takes advantage of the opportunities presented by artificial intelligence.
The New York-based firm said it would “constrain headcount growth through the end of the year” and is planning a “limited reduction in roles across the firm,” according to a memo to staff Tuesday morning seen by Bloomberg News.
Still, the firm expects to finish the year with an increase in overall headcount, Jennifer Zuccarelli, a spokesperson for the bank, added by phone. The firm’s headcount was 48,300 at the end of September, almost 2,000 more employees than a year earlier.
In the note to staff, which announced the launch of the bank’s “OneGS 3.0” strategy, top executives touted the efficiency gains produced by AI as a path to more growth. They added that it would be a “multiyear effort” to implement AI in areas such as client on-boarding, lending processes, regulatory reporting and vendor management.
“While we are still in the early innings in terms of assessing where AI solutions can best be deployed, it’s become increasingly clear that our operational efficiency goals need to reflect the gains that will come from these transformational technologies,” Chief Executive Officer David Solomon, President John Waldron and Chief Financial Officer Denis Coleman said in the memo.
For Goldman to “fully benefit from the promise of AI, we need greater speed and agility in all facets of our operations,” they added. “This doesn’t just mean retooling our platforms.”
Goldman shares fell earlier Tuesday after the bank reported higher expenses in its third-quarter results, though it also posted a jump in investment-banking revenue that outpaced rivals.
(Updates with AI comments starting in first paragraph.)
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
More

Title   : Q2 preview: Infosys narrows gap with Cognizant in India’s AI-powered IT sector
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-15T07:40:16
Fetched : 2025-10-15T07:54:44.761731
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/q2-preview-infosys-narrows-gap-with-cognizant-in-india-s-ai-powered-it-sector-11760503450611.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Q2 preview: Infosys narrows gap with Cognizant in India’s AI-powered IT sector
Infosys clinches $1.6 billion NHS deal, closing revenue gap with Cognizant. Investors eye growth, AI strategy, and margins ahead of Q2 earnings.
When Infosys Ltd bagged its first mega deal in two years, it wasn’t just a blockbuster announcement coming 48 hours before its Q2 results. It was a clear signal that India’s second-largest IT services company was closing in on Nasdaq-listed Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp, a larger peer.
Let’s do the math: at the end of the last fiscal, the revenue difference between the two was $459 million. Cognizant follows the January–December calendar, whereas homegrown IT companies follow April–March. By the end of the April–June quarter, the gap narrowed to $304 million. With the new $1.6 billion, 15-year NHS contract, Infosys could reduce the difference by another $107 million—unless Cognizant surprises with its own big deal. Timing of execution will also determine the impact.
For investors, the NHS win came as heartening news amid a strong operational performance. At least six brokerages expect Infosys to grow the fastest of the big five for the second consecutive quarter, backed by robust project delivery, ramp-up of large deals, and minimal revenue leakages.
Infosys shares traded 1.17% lower at ₹1,472.40 on Wednesday, a day ahead of the results.
AI push
Analysts are also bullish on Infosys’ AI strategy.
“Similar to earlier tech cycles, AI will expand the TAM (total addressable market) for Infosys. The best way to assess GenAI strength is to evaluate whether a company is leading on growth, pricing and margins—Infosys ticks all the boxes," said Kotak Institutional Equities analysts Kawaljeet Saluja, Sathishkumar S, and Vamshi Krishna, in a note dated 11 September.
Infosys is doubling down on small AI models (SLMs), a focus since last year. “We are being told to leverage the use of small language models (SLMs) for clients as much as we can," said an executive on condition of anonymity. The company has at least four SLMs tailored for IT operations, digital banking, and cybersecurity.
Early last year, Infosys formed a 100-member steering committee tasked with identifying AI opportunities, reporting directly to Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani. Today, AI is embedded in almost all deals.
The NHS mega deal was arguably the missing piece to the puzzle. With Q2 earnings around the corner, investors will watch if the company discloses AI revenue or makes any other big announcements in the space.
Amid all this, Mint highlights five things to watch out for as Infosys declares its earnings on Thursday.
Growth trajectory
Much of the mega deal announced on Tuesday is expected to ramp-up and start contributing to the company’s revenue only from next year. Still, the company is poised for growth as its management had pointed out last quarter that it would see a ramp up of many of its mega deals in the second quarter.
However, uncertainties on the H-1B visas and possible outsourcing taxes on US companies could cast shadows on its revenue from its largest market as clients might hold back their tech spending. Atleast three analysts expect the company’s revenue guidance of 1-3% to be unchanged for the full year.
Large deals
The company has been a net beneficiary of vendor consolidation deals where companies reduce the number of IT vendors they work with. However, macroeconomic uncertainties might pose a threat to the company and the management’s commentary on discretionary demand will be closely tracked.
Strength in financial services, accounting for over a fourth of revenue, should help navigate this uncertain demand environment. Analysts will also track program cancellations, tariffs, and pricing pressure in large deals.
AI update
Investors and analysts will keep a keen eye on the AI section of the company’s report card even as its top five peers have made big bang announcements on the same.
While TCS announced a $6 billion investment in AI data centres, HCL is placing its bet on AI-led IP solutions. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra is building large language models for sovereign use.
In this backdrop, investors will keep a close watch on the company’s update on small language models, any incremental revenue from AI-led solutioning, and most of all, whether the company calls out revenue from AI.
Operating margins
Infosys has maintained 20–21% margins despite large deal ramp-ups and wage hikes. The company is leveraging Project Maximus, its margin improvement plan, to keep margins in check.
The company has lowered its general and administrative expenses, reduced subcontracting, and is retaining some of the efficiency gains through Gen AI. Its continued focus on value-based selling is further expected to boost margins in the absence of any wage hikes last quarter. INR depreciation is also expected to help the company retain its margins.
GCC expansion
Infosys is among the few large IT outsourcers doubling down on Global Capability Centers (GCCs). While the company has engaged with GCCs for several years, it now has a more structured approach with dedicated leadership. Earlier this year, Deval Shah was roped in to head the GCC practice.
Infosys is looking not only to source work from existing GCCs but also to set up and run new ones. The company supports GCCs through recruitment services, infrastructure, and build-operate-transfer models. Management commentary on GCC engagements and associated revenue streams will be closely watched.

