Full Article Fetch Test - SIL
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-19): -10199000.00

Title   : It's HBO's ‘Silicon Valley’ in India as hacker houses catch on — minus the profanities and open bathrobes
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-17T09:34:31
Fetched : 2025-10-19T10:46:19.223242
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/start-ups/hacker-houses-india-silicon-valley-bengaluru-dharamshala-11760591545777.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It's HBO's ‘Silicon Valley’ in India as hacker houses catch on — minus the profanities and open bathrobes
Hacker hostels, inspired by the culture of Silicon Valley, gain traction in India. Young tech builders are coming together to work on apps, robots, and startups — in spaces they work and live in 24x7.
HBO's five-season popular show Silicon Valley is being played out in India as a slew of so-called hacker hostels gain traction from Bangalore to Dharamshala. What's missing are the profanities and coders in open bathrobes but the rest of the vibe is very much Silicon Valley with tech builders hard at creating their magic.
Hacker hostels are places where such builders live and work, complete with the chaos of multiple teams sharing the space 24x7. They are usually hosted by either a single person or a group, where people come from all over to ‘hack’ something together, be it an app, robot or even a startup.
People as young as 14 years attend these one-to-three-month long residency programs, entering India's burgeoning startup ecosystem very early. Some groups born out of hacker hostels have managed to raise money for their startups.
“It's a very recent and growing phenomenon in India. It started picking up only this year," said Bhaskar Kode, founder of AI Grants India. The company is a non-profit that helps budding startup founders and builders with getting access to large language model credits, access to hacker hostels as well as introductions to venture capitalists or exited founders. “We wanted to remove the friction that currently exists when it comes to fostering AI in India," he added.
Traditionally, hacker houses in India have had a visibility issue. They've either been unreliable or unable to sustain as a business or just bad at brand positioning across social media.
“LocalHost cracked distribution fairly well and that's how people are getting to know that the hacker house culture exists in India," said Nimisha Chanda, India lead of The Residency, a hacker house that was started in 2023 in San Francisco by Nick Linck. The India chapter is based out of Bengaluru's HSR Layout, a suburb where every second street is home to startups.
LocalHost was started by three friends, Kei Hayashi, Suhas Sumukh and Hardeep Gambhir, who met over messaging platform Discord three years ago. What started as a Discord server for people with an interest in tech has now evolved into a hacker house across different countries, including Romania, Japan and France. “We started with cohorts of just five people and have now expanded to 15," said Sumukh, who turned 18 earlier this year. He sold his first venture during the Covid pandemic, when he was 15.
Bengaluru ± 1
One of India's earliest hacker hostels didn't even crop up in Bengaluru, but in Dharamshala, in Himachal Pradesh. Altspace was launched by Prashant Abhishek, back in 2018. “Back then, we were more of a coding camp than a hacker hostel. We were AltCampus then."
When the pandemic hit, Abhishek took the company online and later pivoted to make it a co-living and co-working space now called AltSpace. It is the largest hacker hostel in the country, capable of housing up to 50 people at a time.
So far, AltSpace has hosted two editions of the Indiehacking Retreat and the recently concluded AI Launchpad residency, a nine-week-long program for builders to come and build products together. At the end of AI Launchpad, AltSpace said it held a demo day, for founders to showcase what they had built and invited investors including Antler India, Blume Ventures, Lightspeed India, and Peak XV Partners. Mint could not independently verify this.
Meanwhile, LocalHost is planning to double down on Bengaluru. While it initially started as an online cohort, Sumukh said that it has decided to take it offline in India on account of the talent pool and density in the country. For its recent cohort, the company received over 500 applications pan-India, including from several smaller cities like Indore, Bhopal and Jaipur.
LocalHost had tried out a two-month long residency program in Gurugram for technologists as well as creative enthusiasts. “It went well, but we found that on break from college, NCR folks would move to Bengaluru to break into the startup society here," said Sumukh.
As part of their Bengaluru push, LocalHost is hiring out a house in the tech city to create a media and startups lab. One floor for ‘minus one founders’, one for hardware development and another one for SaaS and fintech folks. “We realised that startup founders need visibility and that's the media side of it. The startups side is for founders to get money, investments and a support engine," Sumukh said.
Term sheets
For the hacker hostels that are cropping up in India, the average age is below 25. The youngest resident at the Bengaluru chapter of The Residency was a sixteen-year-old building an AI tool for the film industry.
“We're fairly sector agnostic. We've seen founders working on problems across everything, from deeptech to robotics, to AI, even healthtech and augmented reality," said Chanda.
So far, seven people from previous cohorts of The Residency in India have raised $100,000 in grant money from Emergent Ventures, an initiative from the George Mason University in the US, and another has raised $250,000 in a seed round led by Google AI lead Jeff Dean, according to its website.
At LocalHost, the youngest person was sixteen as well and building ‘Cursor for hardware.’ Point the camera in the device to any hardware such as a circuit board and it would suggest what kind of code is required and write it up. "This founder literally built this in just 30 days," said Sumukh.
Some of the startups that have come out of the company's programs have managed to raise money as well.
Maya Research, run by Dheemanth Reddy, received a $30,000 grant from Emergent Ventures and has raised an undisclosed amount from an institutional investor and various angel investors. Prava Payments, a payment stack for AI agents built by Sushant Pandey and Shubham Kukreti, is currently raising money, as is augmented reality glasses company dawnAR.
Space, food, equity
On the other hand, money is always tight for people running hacker houses. Grants and sponsorship opportunities aren't always easy to come by to cover the costs of hosting builders.
For the hacker house ecosystem to grow in the country, they have to either find backers in the form of exited founders who have enough money to burn and have an altruistic view of growing the scene or build a venture capital fund of their own, according to industry veterans.
A venture capital model would be similar to Erlich Bachmann's from the Silicon Valley show. Bachmann is a fictional arrogant character in the show who made his money selling his company and then made his home an incubator space.
Going the venture fund route means hacker houses have to take a chunk of equity from founders and have first right to write a cheque to first-time founder. This also helps them build credibility in the ecosystem.
“It would be something like a hacker house running a fund. Like college meets Y Combinator, except hacker houses back founders from the minus one to zero stage," said AltSpace's Abhishek. Y Combinator is a storied startup accelerator in San Francisco that helped start Airbnb, Stripe, Doordash, and ScaleAI, among other wildly successful companies.
LocalHost is planning to go the fund route in the long run. Currently, it provides micro-grants and co-invests with companies from their cohorts. Sumukh, Hayashi, and Gambhir are currently figuring out how best to provide more targeted financial assistance to founders. “When the time is right, we'll expand our investment capabilities to further support the next generation of innovators and entrepreneurs," Sumukh said.

Title   : Silver surge, weak rupee lift Hindustan Zinc’s Q2 profit despite lower output
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-17T15:09:17
Fetched : 2025-10-19T10:46:19.223363
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/company-results/silver-surge-weak-rupee-lift-hindustan-zinc-q2-profit-despite-lower-output-11760708988514.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The ongoing silver rally and a weaker rupee helped Hindustan Zinc Ltd report a 14% year-on-year jump in its profit for the September quarter, offsetting a sharp dip in metal production.
The company, which makes zinc, lead and silver, reported a consolidated profit of ₹2,649 crore for the quarter. Revenue for the quarter was up 4% to ₹8,549 crore, its highest ever for the July-September period.
Silver production during the quarter was down by a fifth compared to last year to 147 tonnes, limiting the company’s ability to benefit from the ongoing boom in silver prices. Lead production too dropped by 29% to 45,000 tonnes, while zinc production inched up by 2% to 202,000 tonnes.
Moreover, the company has cut its silver sale forecast for the year to 680 tonnes from 700-710 tonnes earlier. Silver is recovered as a byproduct of zinc and lead production.
"Looking ahead, we have revised our FY2026 refined metal guidance to 1,075 kilotonnes plus/minus 10,000 tonnes per annum and silver guidance to 680 tonnes plus/minus 10 tonnes per annum, considering lower plant availability and lower silver input during the first half of the year," said Arun Misra, chief executive officer (CEO) of Hindustan Zinc, in a post-earnings interaction with analysts.
Given that silver production in the first half was relatively slow, achieving the 680-tonne annual guidance will require a stronger second half, said Mishra. “To meet this target, we have redirected resources from other mines to the SK Mine and introduced incentives for contractors and workers to focus on extracting high-silver stopes,” he said, adding that this will help the company maximize output while prices remain strong.
The Sindesar Khurd (SK) Mine, located in Rajasthan, is an underground operation and one of India’s largest sources of silver production.
Prices of silver were, on average, 34% higher year-on-year during the quarter at $39.4 per ounce, even as zinc and lead prices remained relatively flat. The precious metal has now crossed $50 per ounce. Every $1 increase in silver price adds about ₹200 crore in the company’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (Ebitda), as per an investor presentation.
This reflected in the company’s margins. Ebitda, a measure of operating income, rose nearly 7% to ₹4,209 crore despite the lower production numbers. Ebitda margin also improved 139 basis points to 49.2%.
Silver contributed as much as 40% to the company’s profit during the quarter, chief financial officer Sandeep Modi said. “We are well-positioned to leverage commodity tailwinds while strengthening our sustainable value creation through disciplined cost management, growth projects, value-added offerings, and critical mineral development.”
The rupee's downward slide versus the US dollar also helped the company’s profitability. Every ₹1 fall versus the dollar adds about ₹200 crore to the company’s Ebitda. According to its investor presentation, the rupee was on average ₹3.55 lower to the dollar during the quarter compared to the preceding year.
The company’s profitability was also aided by better cost management, with the cost of producing zinc falling 7% year-on-year to $995 per tonne.
“I am delighted to share that we have delivered the best-ever second quarter mined metal production with a 5-year low zinc cost of production of $994 per tonne, reflecting the continuous operational excellence, technology intervention and dedication of our people,” said CEO Misra.
Shares of Hindustan Zinc closed 1.29% lower on the BSE at ₹500.05 compared to a 0.58% gain in the benchmark Sensex. The earnings were disclosed during market hours.
In August, the company’s board approved an investment of ₹3,823 crore in a tailings reprocessing plant at Rampura Agucha with a feed capacity of 10 million tonnes per annum. Expected to be completed by the last quarter of FY28, this plant will help the company extract valuable minerals that exist in trace quantities in its mining waste after extracting zinc, lead and silver.
Earlier in June, the company disclosed its plans to invest ₹12,000 crore in expanding its metal refining capacity by 250,000 tonnes per annum. Presently, the capacity is about 1.1 million tonnes a year. The company said that it has “locked in” the contractors for this expansion, which is expected to be completed by the second quarter of FY29.
Meanwhile, commissioning of the company’s planned 510,000 tonnes a year fertilizer plant at Chanderiya has been delayed by 12-18 months. It is now expected to be operational by the first quarter of FY27. The plant will use sulphuric acid that is generated by the company as a by-product, helping it improve its margins.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesCompany ResultsSilver surge, weak rupee lift Hindustan Zinc’s Q2 profit despite lower output

