Full Article Fetch Test - IT
================================================================================

Title   : IT sector margins show uptick in Q2, companies cautiously optimistic 
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-19T05:49:20
Fetched : 2025-10-19T10:19:05.528377
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/info-tech/it-sector-margins-show-uptick-in-q2-companies-cautiously-optimistic/article70181886.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Profit margins of India’s large IT companies showed a sequential uptick of 20-100 bps in the quarter ending September owing to big ticket deal wins, a gradual geographical diversification and careful client engagements.
Analysts however warned that margins pressure will persist for some time owing to slow monetisation of deals and cautious discretionary spending by clients.
According to Rajesh Palviya, Senior Vice President – Head Research, Axis Securities, margins of companies like Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Tech Mahindra improved mainly due to cost discipline, currency tailwinds, better pricing on large digital and transformation deals and automation-driven productivity gains.
Revival in some demand pockets with earlier deal momentum also helped performance.
Biswajit Maity, Senior Principal Analyst at Gartner noted the industry’s active focus towards large deals and market expansion to Europe and APAC but foresees pressure due to competitive pricing, wage inflation, and low discretionary spending.
“While a gradual recovery in global IT spending is underway, growth will likely remain moderate until discretionary technology budgets see a meaningful rebound. Indian IT firms are navigating the current environment with cautious optimism, but ongoing economic and geopolitical uncertainties mean the sector is not yet fully past the macroeconomic headwinds,” he said.
Wipro, which was the only company to report a flattish margin at 17.2 per cent, expects the next quarter to be seasonally weaker in terms of furlough, lower working days.
TCS firm on margin aspirations
TCS’ operating margin increased by 100 bps in H1 of the financial year and stood at 25.2 per cent in Q2. Sequentially, this was an improvement of 70 bps, excluding one-time severance this quarter. The company attributed this to good growth momentum across all verticals, strategic investments. Currency helped support margins by 80 bps while the Quarterly Variable Allowance (QVA), a performance-linked bonus, impacted margins by 70bps.
“Growth, when achieved through value creation and innovation, will have a positive impact on margins over time. We continue to work towards getting back to our aspirational band of 26-28 per cent,” said K. Krithivasan, CEO at TCS.
Tech Mahindra cautious on growth
Tech Mahindra said its Q2 EBIT margin of 12.1 per cent was driven primarily by improvement in fixed-price project productivity, volume growth. When asked about the 15 per cent margin aspiration, Mohit Joshi, CEO of Tech Mahindra said, “We had not baked in the very slow macro environment that we are seeing. Candidly, while we will wait for another quarter or two, we really don’t see dramatic growth coming back next year. I am personally a little bit skeptical about whether we will have much flexibility [towards a] sort of abnormal profit to invest back in the business.”
Beyond US market
Greyhound Research suggested all companies to diversify beyond the US market. The industry’s overdependence on the US market and uncertainty within the region has triggered accelerated growth in Continental Europe, APMEA, and Latin America.
“Data sovereignty mandates and regional procurement preferences are reinforcing the need for deeper local presence. IT providers are responding with targeted investments in near-shore centres and language-specific capabilities. Greyhound Research views this as an enduring transformation. The US will remain vital, but reducing concentration risk and embracing regional resilience is essential,” said Sanchit Vir Gogia, Chief Analyst at Greyhound.
On the US H1B uncertainty, Jayesh Sanghrajka, Chief Financial Officer at Infosys said during Q2 earnings call that more nearshoring and offshoring should mean more margin. Similarly, HCL Technologies also acknowledged the H1B visa developments as a potential margin headwind, owing to higher investments in training, local hiring.
“We will prioritize investment in AI to help us grow the disciplined margins,” said Shiv Walia, Chief Financial Officer at HCL Tech, whose margins grew to 17.5 per cent, 116 bps sequentially.
Published on October 19, 2025

Title   : Chip Firm Arrow Says Its Units To Be Removed from US Blacklist
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-18T20:59:40
Fetched : 2025-10-19T10:19:05.528511
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/chip-firm-arrow-says-its-units-to-be-removed-from-us-blacklist-11760821180372.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arrow Electronics Inc. said its affiliates will be dropped from a US Commerce Department sanctions list, sparing the Colorado-based chip distributor’s subsidiaries from a possible ban on purchases of American technologies.
The removals came less than two weeks after the Bureau of Industry and Security put a handful of companies it said were tied to Arrow on its so-called entity list for allegedly helping Iranian proxies buy American technology. At the time, Arrow said its units were in full compliance with US regulations and that it was discussing the listings with the Commerce Department.
Arrow spokesperson John Hourigan said a Bureau of Industry and Security official notified the company Friday that its affiliates would be removed from the list. One of the units named in the original notice, Arrow Electronics Co., Ltd., is actually not connected to the company and appears to be a “copycat using a similar name,” Hourigan said.
The bureau has authorized Arrow to resume transactions with all of its affiliates ahead of the publication of the removal in the Federal Register, Hourigan said.
In a letter, seen by Bloomberg News, the BIS said Arrow has permission to export, reexport or transfer quantities no greater than 110% of the items transferred during the 120-period prior to the entity listing. That temporary authorization is valid until Feb. 14 or a publication of the entity removal in the the Federal Register, the letter says.
The BIS remains “committed to ensuring that export restrictions are appropriately targeted to protect national security,” a spokesperson for the agency said in a statement. The company declined to comment on the details of the letter.
Several of this month’s entity list additions — including the now-removed Arrow affiliates — were tied to the discovery of US-origin electronic components in scraps of unmanned aircraft systems operated by Iranian proxies since 2017. The components were found after scrutiny of drone wreckage recovered by nations in the Gulf and Middle East regions, according to the initial blacklisting notice.
It’s rare to see US-based firms on the entity list. The US weighed restrictions on Arrow as early as 2020 when an Asian subsidiary was suspected of providing technology to foreign military forces. Arrow said back then that description was an error and the subsidiary was not engaged in military activities.
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
This article was generated from an automated news agency feed without modifications to text.
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
More

Title   : Traders, markets in India saw total business of ₹1 lakh crore on Dhanteras : CAIT
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-18T09:57:23
Fetched : 2025-10-19T10:19:05.528615
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/dhanteras-gold-buying-kicks-off-record-prices-may-dampen-volumes-by-15/article70178747.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
With a strong surge in sales of gold, silver, utensils, kitchenware, vehicles, electronic and electrical goods and other auspicious items, total business for traders and market hubs crossed ₹1 lakh crore across the country as per estimates by the Confederation of All India Traders.
Praveen Khandelwal, Secretary-General, CAIT and Member of Parliament from Chandni Chowk said, “ This year, Dhanteras witnessed record-breaking sales across multiple sectors including gold & silver Jewellery and coins ( ₹60,000 crore), utensils & kitchenware and appliances (₹15,000 crore), electronic & electrical Goods (₹10,000 crore) , decorative Items, Lamps & Puja Materials ( ₹3,000 crore), Dry Fruits, Sweets, Fruits, Textiles, Vehicles & Miscellaneous Items ( ₹12,000) crore.Thus, the total business nationwide on Dhanteras is estimated at ₹1 lakh crore.”
On Dhanteras, consumers across the country traditionally buy gold, silver, utensils, kitchenware, vehicles, brooms, electronic and electrical goods, idols of Goddess Lakshmi and Lord Ganesha, clay lamps, and other puja materials, all considered symbols of prosperity.
According to Pankaj Arora, National President of CAIT’s jewellery chapter, the All India Jewellers and Goldsmith Federation (AIJGF), the past two days have seen unprecedented rush in jewellery markets. “As per preliminary estimates, the gold and silver trade alone exceeded ₹60,000 crore, while Delhi’s bullion markets recorded sales worth over ₹10,000 crore, marking a 25 per cent rise compared to last year,” he said.
CAIT said that despite the sharp rise in prices, consumers have continued buying gold and silver, as they are considered the most secure forms of investment, while regular customers preferred lightweight jewellery this season.
Colin Shah, MD of Kama Jewelery, said irrespective of the sky-high price of gold, favourable economic conditions and the GST reforms, there was a tremendous response. A significant demand was seen among buyers for lightweight jewellery, especially in the younger age groups.
Along with this, a niche demand for heavy jewellery for the upcoming winter wedding season was observed. “Overall, it was a phenomenal response this Dhanteras with an overall festive spike of 15 to 18 per cent as compared to last year,” he said.
Khandelwal pointed out that the sharp rise in festive trade this year is largely due to significant reductions in GST rates and also consumers are showing a clear perference for locally made and Indian products reflecting the impact of Prime Minister’s“Swadeshi Aapnao” (Adopt Indigenous Products) campaign.
He further noted that this festive season, not only malls but also traditional markets, jewellery bazaars, utensil hubs, electronic markets, and local retail shops have witnessed “extraordinary enthusiasm and record customer turnout”.
Published on October 18, 2025

Title   : It's HBO's ‘Silicon Valley’ in India as hacker houses catch on — minus the profanities and open bathrobes
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-17T09:34:31
Fetched : 2025-10-19T10:19:05.529232
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/start-ups/hacker-houses-india-silicon-valley-bengaluru-dharamshala-11760591545777.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It's HBO's ‘Silicon Valley’ in India as hacker houses catch on — minus the profanities and open bathrobes
Hacker hostels, inspired by the culture of Silicon Valley, gain traction in India. Young tech builders are coming together to work on apps, robots, and startups — in spaces they work and live in 24x7.
HBO's five-season popular show Silicon Valley is being played out in India as a slew of so-called hacker hostels gain traction from Bangalore to Dharamshala. What's missing are the profanities and coders in open bathrobes but the rest of the vibe is very much Silicon Valley with tech builders hard at creating their magic.
Hacker hostels are places where such builders live and work, complete with the chaos of multiple teams sharing the space 24x7. They are usually hosted by either a single person or a group, where people come from all over to ‘hack’ something together, be it an app, robot or even a startup.
People as young as 14 years attend these one-to-three-month long residency programs, entering India's burgeoning startup ecosystem very early. Some groups born out of hacker hostels have managed to raise money for their startups.
“It's a very recent and growing phenomenon in India. It started picking up only this year," said Bhaskar Kode, founder of AI Grants India. The company is a non-profit that helps budding startup founders and builders with getting access to large language model credits, access to hacker hostels as well as introductions to venture capitalists or exited founders. “We wanted to remove the friction that currently exists when it comes to fostering AI in India," he added.
Traditionally, hacker houses in India have had a visibility issue. They've either been unreliable or unable to sustain as a business or just bad at brand positioning across social media.
“LocalHost cracked distribution fairly well and that's how people are getting to know that the hacker house culture exists in India," said Nimisha Chanda, India lead of The Residency, a hacker house that was started in 2023 in San Francisco by Nick Linck. The India chapter is based out of Bengaluru's HSR Layout, a suburb where every second street is home to startups.
LocalHost was started by three friends, Kei Hayashi, Suhas Sumukh and Hardeep Gambhir, who met over messaging platform Discord three years ago. What started as a Discord server for people with an interest in tech has now evolved into a hacker house across different countries, including Romania, Japan and France. “We started with cohorts of just five people and have now expanded to 15," said Sumukh, who turned 18 earlier this year. He sold his first venture during the Covid pandemic, when he was 15.
Bengaluru ± 1
One of India's earliest hacker hostels didn't even crop up in Bengaluru, but in Dharamshala, in Himachal Pradesh. Altspace was launched by Prashant Abhishek, back in 2018. “Back then, we were more of a coding camp than a hacker hostel. We were AltCampus then."
When the pandemic hit, Abhishek took the company online and later pivoted to make it a co-living and co-working space now called AltSpace. It is the largest hacker hostel in the country, capable of housing up to 50 people at a time.
So far, AltSpace has hosted two editions of the Indiehacking Retreat and the recently concluded AI Launchpad residency, a nine-week-long program for builders to come and build products together. At the end of AI Launchpad, AltSpace said it held a demo day, for founders to showcase what they had built and invited investors including Antler India, Blume Ventures, Lightspeed India, and Peak XV Partners. Mint could not independently verify this.
Meanwhile, LocalHost is planning to double down on Bengaluru. While it initially started as an online cohort, Sumukh said that it has decided to take it offline in India on account of the talent pool and density in the country. For its recent cohort, the company received over 500 applications pan-India, including from several smaller cities like Indore, Bhopal and Jaipur.
LocalHost had tried out a two-month long residency program in Gurugram for technologists as well as creative enthusiasts. “It went well, but we found that on break from college, NCR folks would move to Bengaluru to break into the startup society here," said Sumukh.
As part of their Bengaluru push, LocalHost is hiring out a house in the tech city to create a media and startups lab. One floor for ‘minus one founders’, one for hardware development and another one for SaaS and fintech folks. “We realised that startup founders need visibility and that's the media side of it. The startups side is for founders to get money, investments and a support engine," Sumukh said.
Term sheets
For the hacker hostels that are cropping up in India, the average age is below 25. The youngest resident at the Bengaluru chapter of The Residency was a sixteen-year-old building an AI tool for the film industry.
“We're fairly sector agnostic. We've seen founders working on problems across everything, from deeptech to robotics, to AI, even healthtech and augmented reality," said Chanda.
So far, seven people from previous cohorts of The Residency in India have raised $100,000 in grant money from Emergent Ventures, an initiative from the George Mason University in the US, and another has raised $250,000 in a seed round led by Google AI lead Jeff Dean, according to its website.
At LocalHost, the youngest person was sixteen as well and building ‘Cursor for hardware.’ Point the camera in the device to any hardware such as a circuit board and it would suggest what kind of code is required and write it up. "This founder literally built this in just 30 days," said Sumukh.
Some of the startups that have come out of the company's programs have managed to raise money as well.
Maya Research, run by Dheemanth Reddy, received a $30,000 grant from Emergent Ventures and has raised an undisclosed amount from an institutional investor and various angel investors. Prava Payments, a payment stack for AI agents built by Sushant Pandey and Shubham Kukreti, is currently raising money, as is augmented reality glasses company dawnAR.
Space, food, equity
On the other hand, money is always tight for people running hacker houses. Grants and sponsorship opportunities aren't always easy to come by to cover the costs of hosting builders.
For the hacker house ecosystem to grow in the country, they have to either find backers in the form of exited founders who have enough money to burn and have an altruistic view of growing the scene or build a venture capital fund of their own, according to industry veterans.
A venture capital model would be similar to Erlich Bachmann's from the Silicon Valley show. Bachmann is a fictional arrogant character in the show who made his money selling his company and then made his home an incubator space.
Going the venture fund route means hacker houses have to take a chunk of equity from founders and have first right to write a cheque to first-time founder. This also helps them build credibility in the ecosystem.
“It would be something like a hacker house running a fund. Like college meets Y Combinator, except hacker houses back founders from the minus one to zero stage," said AltSpace's Abhishek. Y Combinator is a storied startup accelerator in San Francisco that helped start Airbnb, Stripe, Doordash, and ScaleAI, among other wildly successful companies.
LocalHost is planning to go the fund route in the long run. Currently, it provides micro-grants and co-invests with companies from their cohorts. Sumukh, Hayashi, and Gambhir are currently figuring out how best to provide more targeted financial assistance to founders. “When the time is right, we'll expand our investment capabilities to further support the next generation of innovators and entrepreneurs," Sumukh said.

