Full Article Fetch Test - TRUST
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-21): 80.06M

Title   : Tata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan as ‘trustee for life’ amid internal conflict
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-21T10:43:52
Fetched : 2025-10-21T19:21:19.719128
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/tata-trusts-reappoints-venu-srinivasan-as-trustee-for-life-amid-internal-conflict-11761042429086.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tata Group's philanthropy arm, Tata Trusts, has unanimously re-appointed Venu Srinivasan as a trustee for life amid reports of internal conflict among the divisions within the organisation, news agency PTI reported on Tuesday, 21 October 2025.
Venu Srinivasan's re-appointment comes right ahead of his tenure expiry date on 23 October 2025, at a time when the people within Tata Trusts are vertically split. One group aligns with Noel Tata, who took over the reins after Ratan Tata's demise, and the other with Mehli Mistry, who has ties with the extended Shapoorji Pallonji family.
People aware of the development told the agency that Srinivasan's re-appointment was unanimous. However, Tata Trust refused to respond to the news agency's queries.
Renewal and fresh appointment is required to be unanimous as per past practice - a person aware of the development said.
With Venu Srinivasan's re-appointment, the focus now shifts to the re-appointment of Mehli Mistry as a trustee, whose term expires on 28 October 2025.
Mistry's re-appointment and continuation as a trustee will require the unanimous approval of the trustees for the lifetime tenure appointment, according to the report.
“Renewal and fresh appointment is required to be unanimous as per past practice. Renewal, after which it will be for life, requires unanimous approval,” a person aware of the development told the news agency.
They also said that the re-appointment is automatic and applies to all trustees.
Tata Trusts oversees several charitable trusts, including the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and the Sir Ratan Tata Trust. The entity also holds a 66% stake in Tata Sons, the main holding company, which owns stakes in all Tata Group firms.
According to the report, the original meeting held on 17 October 2024 resolved that if the tenure of a trustee expires, they are to be re-appointed by the trust concerned without any limit attached to the period of validity.
The report also said that if any trustee chooses to vote against this motion, they would be in breach of the commitment and would not be fit to serve at ‘Tata Trusts by such conduct’.
The Shapoorji Pallonji family owns more than 18% stake in Tata Sons, the holding company for all Tata Group companies.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesNewsTata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan as ‘trustee for life’ amid internal conflict

Title   : Tata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan as trustee; Mistry up for renewal
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-21T15:29:07
Fetched : 2025-10-21T19:21:19.719210
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/tata-trusts-reappoints-venu-srinivasan-as-trustee-mistry-up-for-renewal/article70187059.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Venu Srinivasan’s reappointment as lifetime trustee on Tata Trusts was unanimously approved by all the members, sources said. The upcoming reappointment of Mehli Mistry in the next few days is being keenly watched.
Multiple sources said that in light of the friction amongst the trustees that has Chairman Noel Tata and Mistry in opposing camps, the reappointment of the latter may not be smooth.
A resolution passed by Tata Trusts in October 2024 stated that when the term of a trustee comes up for renewal, that trustee would be reappointed for life, subject to it being revisited on reaching 75 years, and this was to be an automatic process. Sources aligned with Mistry said Srinivasan’s reappointment was inevitable following this resolution.
Sources close to Noel Tata, however, said that it would depend on the stance taken by him on Mistry’s reappointment.
The outcome is likely to be known in the next couple of days, they said. Mistry’s term ends on October 28.
There was no response to emails sent to Tata Trusts, Mehli Mistry, and office of Noel Tata.
Mistry is part of Tata Trusts executive committee that is responsible for its overall functioning and superintendence. Apart from Mistry, the committee also has Noel Tata, Srinivasan and Vijay Singh.
Srinivasan’s reappointment comes amidst an ongoing rift among the trustees and at the core of that is control of Tata Sons and whether it should be listed or remain privately held.
Earlier, Singh’s reappointment to Tata Sons’ board was blocked by four trustees, including Mistry, whose effort to be appointed on the board was shot down by Tata.
Tata Trusts has taken the position that Tata Sons should remain unlisted, while the Shapoorji Pallonji group is in favour of a listing as that will help it to monetise some portion of its over 18 per cent stake and reduce its liabilities.
Published on October 21, 2025

Title   : Tata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan for life; focus now on Mehli Mistry’s renewal amid internal rift
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-21T09:43:17
Fetched : 2025-10-21T19:21:19.720023
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/tata-trusts-reappoints-venu-srinivasan-for-life-focus-now-on-mehli-mistrys-renewal-amid-internal-rift/article70185804.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tata Trusts has unanimously reappointed Venu Srinivasan as a trustee for life, and all eyes are now on the upcoming decision regarding Mehli Mistry’s renewal, amid reported internal divisions within the organisation.
The reappointment of Srinivasan this week, ahead of his term expiring on October 23, comes amid reports of a vertical split within Tata Trusts - with one faction said to align with Noel Tata, who took over as chairman following Ratan Tata’s death, and the other comprising those seen as loyalists of the former doyen.
A source with direct knowledge of the matter said reappointment of Srinivasan, chairman emeritus of TVS Group, was unanimous.
Tata Trusts declined to comment on the news.
Focus shifts to Mehli Mistry’s renewal
The focus now shifts to the reappointment of Mistry, whose term ends on October 28, with opinions divided on whether his continuation is automatic or requires unanimous approval from the trustees for a lifetime tenure.
Tata Trusts, the umbrella body overseeing several charitable trusts including the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and the Sir Ratan Tata Trust, holds a 66 per cent stake in Tata Sons - the holding company of the 156-year-old Tata Group, which comprises around 400 companies, including 30 listed entities.
“Renewal and fresh appointment is required to be unanimous as per past practice. Renewal, after which it will be for life, requires unanimous approval,” said a source.
October 17 resolution sparks debate
However, another person said, “The reappointment is automatic and it is applicable to all the trustees.” Citing minutes of the joint meeting of the trustees of the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and the Sir Ratan Tata Trust held on October 17, 2024, the person said it was resolved that on the expiry of tenure of any trustee, the trustee would be reappointed by the concerned trust without any limit being attached to the period of tenure.
As per the resolution, any trustee who chose to vote otherwise would be in “breach of their commitment and is not fit and proper to serve on Tata Trusts by such conduct”, the person added.
Moreover, the person said if there is any breach of the commitment by a Trustee, it will necessitate the reopening of all resolutions passed by Tata Trusts, “including the appointment of Noel Tata as a director on the Board of Tata Sons, which formed part of the October 17, 2024 Trustees’ resolution”.
Also, according to the October 17, 2024 resolution, all trustees are appointed on a long-term and life basis and trusteeship would be revisited upon reaching 75 years of age.
Published on October 21, 2025

Title   : Tata Trusts trustees differ over reappointment of Venu Srinivasan and Mehli Mistry
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T16:47:55
Fetched : 2025-10-21T19:21:19.720172
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/tata-trusts-trustees-differ-over-reappointment-of-venu-srinivasan-and-mehli-mistry/article70185051.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
More differences have surfaced among the trustees of the Tata Trusts. This time it is over the upcoming reappointment of trustees Venu Srinivasan and Mehli Mistry, whose terms end on October 23 and 28, respectively.
Divisions among the trustees surfaced in September when four trustees—Mehli Mistry, Darius Khambatta, Jehangir H Jehangir and Pramit Jhaveri—opposed the renomination of another trustee, Vijay Singh, to the board of Tata Sons. Singh subsequently stepped down from the board of Tata Sons though he remains a trustee. Singh, Srinivasan and Noel Tata find themselves ranged against the other four named above.
A circular was sent to all trustees on Saturday about the expiry of the tenures of Srinivasan and Mistry. According to a source close to the trust, while the Mistry group believes that the reappointment is automatic as per a resolution passed in the trust board meeting a year ago, the other side insists that it is subject to voting by all trustees.
Incidentally, the said resolution passed in the board meeting on October 17 last year also stated that on reappointment, the trustee’s tenure will be permanent.
Here’s the resolution shared by a person close to the trusts: “The trustees recognised that they’re all equally responsible charged with public duty and specifically tasked by Mr. Ratan N Tata. To this end, they resolve that on the expiry of tenure of any trustee, that trustee will be reappointed by the concerned trust without any limit being attached to the period of tenure of such reappointment, and in accordance with law.”
A straight reading of the resolution would imply that Venu Srinivasan and Mehli Mistry are set to be reappointed to their existing positions. And when the reappointment happens this time, they will become permanent trustees.
But the other group, which counts Noel Tata, chairman of Tata Trusts in its midst, believes that any reappointment cannot be automatic and must be agreed upon by other trustees. This difference is likely to boil over this week even as it is understood that Mehli Mistry has already responded to the circular and pointed to last year’s resolution which does not specify voting.
While the trustees are battling it out amongst themselves, sources say they’re also wary about the squabble attracting the attention of the authorities and hence are unlikely to take recourse to the courts.
Published on October 20, 2025

