Full Article Fetch Test - TRU
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-18): -90980000.00

Title   : Trump approves expanding credits for US auto production, issues new 25% truck duties
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-18T07:01:48
Fetched : 2025-10-18T19:12:13.730593
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/trump-approves-expanding-credits-for-us-auto-production-issues-new-25-truck-duties/article70178401.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump on Friday signed orders expanding credits for US auto and engine production and setting new 25 per cent tariffs on imported medium- and heavy-duty trucks and parts starting November 1.
The tariffs, which the orders say are being made on national security grounds, are aimed at shifting more auto production to the United States but could be a significant blow to Mexico, which is the largest exporter of medium- and heavy-duty trucks to the United States.
Trump is also setting a 10 per cent tariff on imported buses.
Trump's order makes automakers eligible for a credit equal to 3.75 per cent of the suggested retail price for US assembled vehicles through 2030 to offset import tariffs on parts.
He is also extending the 3.75 per cent credit for US engine production and for US medium- and heavy-duty truck production.
The new tariffs cover all Class 3 through Class 8 trucks, including large pick-up trucks, moving trucks, cargo trucks, dump trucks, and tractors for 18-wheelers.
Trump last month said the tariffs were to protect manufacturers from "unfair outside competition" and the move would benefit companies such as Paccar-owned Peterbilt and Kenworth and Daimler Truck-owned Freightliner.
The US Chamber of Commerce earlier urged Trump not to impose new truck tariffs, noting the top five import sources are Mexico, Canada, Japan, Germany, and Finland "all of which are allies or close partners of the United States posing no threat to US national security."
Reuters first reported the details of the auto tariff action on October 3.
The order provides GM, Ford, Toyota Motor, Stellantis, Honda, Tesla, and other automakers with financial relief against tariffs paid on imported auto parts that were previously imposed by the Trump administration.
The Commerce Department said in June it planned an import adjustment offset equal to 3.75 per cent of the suggested retail price for eligible US assembled vehicles through April 2026 and then a second year at 2.5 per cent to address tariffs from imported automobile parts.
The revised credit expands it to five years, keeps it at 3.75 per cent throughout and extends it to more parts, which makes it more valuable for automakers and could give companies more incentive to shift production, Republican Senator Bernie Moreno said.
Ford CEO Jim Farley said Trump’s order would help make auto parts affordable for US production and the new import tariffs on larger trucks would help level the playing field with imports.
In May, Trump imposed 25 per cent auto tariffs on more than $460 billion worth of imports of vehicles and auto parts annually, but has since struck deals to reduce those tariffs on some countries including Japan, the United Kingdom and the European Union.
The Commerce Department said in August it was hiking steel and aluminum tariffs on more than 400 products including numerous auto parts totaling $240 billion in annual imports. The parts include automotive exhaust systems and steel needed for electric vehicles as well as components for buses.
GM said earlier this year the company will face up to $5 billion in gross tariff-related costs this year, while Ford cited a $3 billion gross hit.
Published on October 18, 2025

Title   : India will not be buying oil from Russia: Trump reiterates
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-18T04:53:58
Fetched : 2025-10-18T19:12:13.730747
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/india-will-not-be-buying-oil-from-russia-trump-reiterates/article70178154.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump reiterated that India will not be buying oil from Russia, saying that New Delhi has already “de-escalated” and “more or less stopped” its oil purchases from Moscow.
While speaking to the media during a bilateral lunch with the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, on Friday, “Trump said India will not be buying oil from Russia, they have already de-escalated and they have more or less stopped.” modi“They are pulling back. They have bought about 38 per cent of the oil, and they won’t be doing it anymore,” Trump said while replying to a question.
India on Thursday said it is "broad-basing and diversifying" its sourcing of energy to meet market conditions, hours after US President Donald Trump claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured him that New Delhi will stop procuring Russian crude oil.
Washington has been maintaining that India is helping Putin to finance the war through its purchase of Russian crude oil.
The relations between New Delhi and Washington have been reeling under severe stress after Trump doubled tariffs on Indian goods to a whopping 50 per cent, including a 25 per cent additional duty for India's purchase of Russian crude oil.
India described the US action as "unfair, unjustified and unreasonable".
Meanwhile, Trump has once again repeated his claims about resolving the war between India and Pakistan, adding that Prime Minister of Pakistan Shehbaz Sharif has said, “I have saved millions of lives.” “The Prime Minister of Pakistan said I saved millions of lives by interceding … you look at Pakistan and India as an example that would have been a bad one for two nuclear nations,” the US President said.
Since May 10, when Trump announced on social media that India and Pakistan had agreed to a “full and immediate” ceasefire after a “long night” of talks mediated by Washington, he has repeated his claim dozens of times that he “helped settle” the conflict between India and Pakistan.
India has consistently maintained that the understanding on cessation of hostilities with Pakistan was reached following direct talks between the Directors General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of the two militaries.
India launched Operation Sindoor on May 7, targeting terror infrastructure in Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir in retaliation for the April 22 Pahalgam attack that killed 26 civilians.
India and Pakistan reached an understanding on May 10 to end the conflict after four days of intense cross-border drone and missile strikes.
Published on October 18, 2025

Title   : US-China talks planned next week as Trump plays down tariffs
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-18T05:04:05
Fetched : 2025-10-18T19:12:13.730868
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/us-china-talks-planned-next-week-as-trump-plays-down-tariffs/article70178174.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The next round of US-China trade talks is set for next week, with Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent and Vice Premier He Lifeng facing the task of negotiating down new escalatory measures between the world’s two largest economies.
Bessent said he spoke virtually with He on Friday evening. The Treasury chief earlier described the discussions with He as “frank and detailed” and reaffirmed plans to meet in-person next week. US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer also took part in the online talks.
“He and I, and a delegation, will meet in Malaysia — probably a week from tomorrow, to prepare for the two presidents to meet,” Bessent said earlier at a White House event.
China’s state-owned Xinhua News Agency reported the two sides had a frank, in-depth, and constructive exchange of views on important issues in bilateral economic and trade relations.
Bessent’s comments came after President Donald Trump expressed optimism that talks with Chinese officials could yield an agreement to defuse the crisis that saw the US leader threaten to drastically hike tariffs. Taken together, the remarks signaled an effort by Washington to calm fears of a full-blown trade war with Beijing that could have a seismic effect on the global economy.
“I think we’re doing very well. I think we’re getting along with China,” Trump said. The US president also indicated that he believed his planned meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping, set to take place this month in South Korea on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation leaders summit, would go ahead.
Earlier: Trump Says Threatened Tariffs on China ‘Not Sustainable’
Just a week ago, Trump had raised the prospect of cancelling his first in-person meeting with Xi since he returned to the White House, infuriated at the China government’s vow to exert broad controls on critical rare-earth elements. He also declared a 100 per cent import surtax on Chinese goods to take effect Nov. 1.
But on Friday, Trump characterized the return of sky-high tariffs as “not sustainable” in a clip of an interview with Fox Business.
Earlier this year, the US and China agreed to a truce in which Washington paused 145 per cent tariffs on Chinese goods while Beijing pledge to resume the flow of rare-earth magnets. That agreement is set to expire in November.
The upcoming talks represent the latest efforts to reach an understanding trade after what’s already been four rounds of bilateral trade talks. Bessent and He previously negotiated in Madrid, Stockholm, London and Geneva. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia’s capital, is set to host a summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations next week, where many other leaders from around the world are also expected to gather.
“I think things have de-escalated,” Bessent said Friday. “We hope that China will show the respect that we have shown them. And I am confident that President Trump, because of his relationship with President Xi, will be able to get things back on a good course.”
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
Published on October 18, 2025

Title   : Wall Street ends higher as investors digest Trump trade comments 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-10-18T03:07:04
Fetched : 2025-10-18T19:12:13.731304
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/wall-street-ends-higher-as-investors-digest-trump-trade-comments/articleshow/124653434.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
"The market doesn't really know what to take when Donald Trump speaks," said Robert Pavlik, senior portfolio manager at Dakota Wealth. "There's just a lot of back-and-forth comments with regards to China and trade tariffs and pretty much everything else."
Regional bank stocks rebounded following a selloff on Thursday, when Zions Bancorporation disclosed losses tied to two commercial and industrial loans and Western Alliance revealed it had initiated a lawsuit alleging fraud by Cantor Group V, LLC.
"There's a lot more bark than bite on the credit fears," said Jed Ellerbroek, a portfolio manager at Argent Capital. "Looking through all the big banks' results, credit is very good. Overall, there are very few pockets of weakness."
Truist Financial gained 3.7% after the bank reported higher third-quarter profit. Fifth Third Bancorp rose 1.3%, Zions shares rebounded from losses the day before to close 5.8% higher, and Western Alliance advanced 3.1%.
The S&P Composite 1500 Regional Banks index climbed 1.8% after tumbling almost 6% the day before.
The S&P 500 financial sector index, which includes the largest U.S. banks, rose 0.8%.
Robust earnings from JPMorgan and other big banks this week helped get the third-quarter earnings season off to an upbeat start. Analysts on average see S&P 500 earnings climbing 9.3% in the third quarter, an improvement from expectations of 8.8% at the start of October, according to LSEG I/B/E/S.
Following a rally of nearly 14% in 2025, the S&P 500 is valued at 23 times expected earnings, its priciest level in five years.
The S&P 500 climbed 0.53% to end the session at 6,664.01 points.
The Nasdaq gained 0.52% to 22,679.98 points, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.52% to 46,190.61 points.
Nine of the 11 S&P 500 sector indexes rose, led by consumer staples, up 1.23%.
For the week, the S&P 500 gained 1.7%, the Nasdaq rose 2.1% and the Dow climbed 1.6%.
The CBOE volatility index, investors' fear gauge, dropped to 21.5 points after hitting its highest level in nearly six months at 28.99 earlier in the day.
Wall Street's most valuable companies were mixed, with Tesla rising 2.5%, Apple adding almost 2% and Amazon falling 0.7%. Eli Lilly fell 2% after Trump said he would bring down prices of weight-loss drugs. State Street dropped 1.4% after the bank's third-quarter net interest income missed estimates.
Advancing issues outnumbered falling ones within the S&P 500 by a 2.6-to-one ratio.
The S&P 500 posted 7 new highs and 6 new lows; the Nasdaq recorded 37 new highs and 114 new lows.
Volume on U.S. exchanges was relatively light, with 19.6 billion shares traded, compared with an average of 20.7 billion shares over the previous 20 sessions.
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

