Full Article Fetch Test - TECH
================================================================================

Title   : UltraTech Cement Q2 results: Cons PAT zooms 75% YoY  to Rs 1,232 crore, net sales jump 21% 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-10-18T08:46:21
Fetched : 2025-10-19T21:47:07.261080
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/earnings/ultratech-cement-q2-results-cons-pat-zooms-75-yoy-net-sales-jump-21/articleshow/124660864.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The net sales were posted at Rs 19,371 crore in Q2FY26, versus Rs 15,967 crore in the same quarter last year.
UltraTech Cement reported a robust 22.3% growth in domestic grey cement sales during the September 2025 quarter, excluding contributions from its newly acquired India Cements and Kesoram assets, which were not part of the company in the year-ago period.
This performance far exceeded the industry average growth of around 5%, underscoring UltraTech’s strong market position and operational execution.
The company benefited from a 7% year-on-year decline in energy costs, though raw material expenses rose 5% due to higher prices of flyash and slag. For its existing operations, operating EBITDA per ton stood at Rs 966, based on a capacity of 166.76 mtpa.
The recently acquired assets of India Cements and Kesoram generated operating EBITDA of Rs 386 per ton and Rs 755 per ton, respectively. Integration progress has been swift, with 55% of Kesoram’s volumes and 31% of India Cements’ volumes already transitioned under the UltraTech brand.
“UltraTech’s expansion program is progressing as scheduled, with the Company continuously enhancing its production capabilities. UltraTech’s domestic grey cement capacity is 186.86 mtpa, on a consolidated basis. Together with its overseas capacity of 5.4 mtpa, the Company’s global capacity stands at 192.26 mtpa. UltraTech also migrated to the GST 2.0 framework effective September 22, 2025, ensuring that customers receive the full benefit of the reduction in GST rates,” the company said while commenting on its capacity expansion.
(Disclaimer: Recommendations, suggestions, views and opinions given by the experts are their own. These do not represent the views of The Economic Times)
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

Title   : UltraTech Cement Q2 profit misses analyst estimate on lower volumes and higher costs
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-18T12:52:38
Fetched : 2025-10-19T21:47:07.261178
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/company-results/ultratech-cement-q2-results-ultratech-cement-profit-ultratech-cement-shares-11760786620577.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UltraTech Cement Ltd, India’s largest cementmaker, reported a sharp decline in net profit for the September quarter sequentially owing to lower volumes and higher fixed costs.
The Aditya Birla Group’s cement arm reported a consolidated net profit of ₹1,238 crore for the quarter, an almost 45% drop compared to the first quarter of FY26, according to the company’s exchange filings. It fell short of Bloomberg's estimate of ₹1,456 crore based on a poll of 19 analysts.
Higher fixed costs such as cost of materials and employee costs, combined with lower sales volumes, hurt profitability, dragging the Ebitda per tonne down sequentially.
“Maintenance, advertising, and staff costs were slightly higher this quarter, contributing to a delta impact of around ₹200 per tonne. Some of these costs, however, will moderate next quarter,” Atul Daga, chief financial officer at UltraTech said in a post-earnings call with analysts, adding that lower quarter-on-quarter sales volumes impacted operating leverage.
Satyadeep Jain, Lead Analyst for Cement, Metals, Mining & Utilities at Ambit Capital, said, “The actual numbers came in below expectations. The drop in profit was driven by a combination of factors such as pricing pressure, higher raw material, power and fuel costs, lower volumes, which increased fixed cost per ton, higher maintenance costs, and the usual July wage hike and bonus payments at UltraTech.
"On the other hand, the company's year-on-year profit growth was supported by a rebound in cement prices from last year's lows and gains from acquisitions.”
The company’s raw material costs rose by almost 1% and employee costs by almost 10% for the second quarter of FY26 compared to the previous quarter. Revenue from operations fell almost 8% sequentially to ₹19,607 crore in the September quarter.
However, revenue from operations grew 20% year-on-year on account of higher pricing compared to last year and acquisition gains. This growth is due in part to UltraTech’s consolidation moves.
The company restated its previous results following the merger of Kesoram Industries’ cement division with effect from 1 April 2024. During the year, it also acquired 75.6% of The India Cements and completed the purchase of Birla White Wallcare Pvt Ltd for ₹234 crore, according to notes accompanying its financials. These results, therefore, are not directly comparable with the prior period.
The cementmaker also announced a fresh investment of ₹10,255 crore to expand its cement production capacity by 22.8 million tonnes per annum, including that of its subsidiary India Cements Limited, according to a company statement.
This expansion will be executed through a mix of brownfield and greenfield projects. Commercial production from these new capacities will begin in phases from FY28, taking the company’s total global cement capacity to 240.76 mtpa.
“Our expansion plans are in full swing, and we expect to finish this financial year with 200 million tonnes of capacity”, said Daga. Major projects such as Vadhavan Port, Amravati, the new Mumbai airport development, upcoming data centers, urban real estate projects, and Google’s $15 billion AI hub in Andhra Pradesh are all driving consistent growth and demand in the cement industry, he added.
Daga also highlighted that GST 2.0 is expected to boost demand for premium cement as more customers will be able to afford their aspirational brands. The company aimed to consolidate presence in the southern markets in FY25, and is now focusing on expanding further in the northern and western regions.
“With an intent to further strengthen our position in these markets, we are embarking on the next phase of our growth with 22.8 million tonnes of incremental capacity which is a mix of largely brownfield and some greenfield expansions. Out of this 22.8 million tonnes, 18 million tonnes is focused on the northern markets, and 4.8 million tonnes for the western markets,” Daga said.
In August Aditya Birla Group and UltraTech Cement chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla said at the company’s annual general meeting it would end FY26 with 200 million tonnes per annum of capacity, a year ahead of its original guidance of FY27. Managing director K.C. Jhanwar said in his message to shareholders in the annual report that it planned to invest ₹9,000-10,000 crore in capex in FY26.
UltraTech’s domestic grey cement capacity is 186.86 mtpa and with its overseas capacity of 5.4 mtpa, total capacity stands at 192.26 mtpa.
Daga said he expected rural markets to be a key demand driver In the second half of 2025. Jhawar added that the housing sector, particularly rural housing, has seen strong demand, supported by a good monsoon and revised minimum support prices for farmers. On the urban side, changes in personal income tax rates and favourable interest rates are expected to give momentum to demand.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesCompany ResultsUltraTech Cement Q2 profit misses analyst estimate on lower volumes and higher costs

Title   : NCLT admits insolvency case against Blu-Smart Mobility Tech
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-19T08:34:33
Fetched : 2025-10-19T21:47:07.261272
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/nclt-admits-insolvency-case-against-blu-smart-mobility-tech/article70182093.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has admitted an insolvency case against Blu-Smart Mobility Tech, the debt-ridden company which was providing all-electric ride-hailing services and building a network of EV charging infrastructure in India.
The Ahmedabad bench of NCLT has admitted the insolvency plea filed by Lepton Software Export and Research against Blu-Smart Mobility over an unpaid amount of ₹5.84 crore, and appointed Pawan Kumar Goyal as the interim resolution professional, suspending the board of the company.
A two-member bench said there is an operational debt, which has been defaulted by Blu-Smart Mobility, and its operational creditor is entitled to recover it.
"The respondent/corporate debtor Blu-Smart Mobility Pvt Ltd is admitted in the Corporate Insolvency Resolution process under section 9(5) of the code," it said.
Moreover, the NCLT also placed Blu-Smart Mobility Tech under the protection of a moratorium as per the provisions of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and directed the IRP to take full charge of Blu-Smart Mobility's assets and documents.
The NCLT order came over a petition filed by Lepton Software, which sells Google Maps Platform services under the licence granted by Google Asia Pacific Pte. It was providing its services for Blu-Smart Mobility Tech's ride-sharing services through an agreement. It had been agreed for the period from October 1, 2022, to September 2023.
The agreement was renewed for a year till September 30, 2024, and Lepton claimed that services continued on an ad-hoc basis, which was even acknowledged by Blu-Smart Mobility through email communications.
The operation creditor submitted that the services provided were governed by Google's Terms of Service, and invoices pertaining to the entire financial year FY25 remained unpaid.
However, Blu-Smart Mobility in its reply denied any operational debt and contended that the said petition was misconceived and an abuse of process.
It contended that the renewal expired on September 30, 2024 and has raised a bill after that without an acceptance/completion certificate. According to Blu-Smart Mobility Tech, post-expiry invoices are not operational debt.
NCLT, however, said Blu-Smart Mobility does not dispute the pre-expiry invoices (up to September 2024) and has acknowledged partial liability.
"However, even assuming that only pre-expiry dues are considered, the admitted outstanding of ₹30,34,764.50 is supplemented by the post-expiry claims," the NCLT said.
It said the renewal agreement expired on September 30, 2024, but the material on record, including emails from the corporate debtor, dated April 3, April 7, and April 15 this year, demonstrate continued usage of the services without objection, requests for invoices and admissions of liability.
The bench comprising members Sanjeev Sharma and Shammi Khan said Blu-Smart Mobility's "conduct implies an ad-hoc continuation of the arrangement on the same terms, akin to an implied contract under Section 70 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, or quantum meruit for services rendered and accepted...".
Blu-Smart Mobility Tech is a part of Blu-Smart Group, whose business comprises Blu-Smart Mobility Ltd and its four subsidiaries, including the corporate debtor. The other three are Blu-Smart Fleet Pvt Ltd, Blu- Smart Charge Pvt Ltd (engaged in charging infrastructure), and Blu-Smart Premium Fleet Pt Ltd (which owns 178 EVs).
Blu-Smart Mobility, which is also presently going through insolvency proceedings, holds 99.99 per cent shareholding in each subsidiary, and all their businesses are mutually intertwined.
The operational ecosystem of the Blu-Smart Group functions through three primary verticals -- technology, fleet, and charging infrastructure -- interlinked to service stakeholders, including customers.
With Blu-Smart Mobility admitted into CIRP, the Resolution Professional, with CoC approval, has taken steps to obtain control over the subsidiaries, including Blu-Smart Mobility Tech, aiming for consolidated value maximisation greater than individual entities.
Published on October 19, 2025

Title   : UltraTech Cement Q2 profit jumps 75% y-o-y
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-19T03:50:04
Fetched : 2025-10-19T21:47:07.261463
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/ultratech-cement-q2-profit-jumps-75-y-o-y/article70181718.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
UltraTech Cement on Saturday reported a consolidated net profit of ₹1,237.98 crore in the September quarter of FY26.
It had posted a net profit of ₹707.96 crore in the July-September period a year ago, the Aditya Birla group flagship firm said in a regulatory filing.
Revenue from operations was at ₹19,606.93 crore in the latest second quarter ending September. It was ₹16,294.42 crore a year earlier.
The company said its results "for the three months and six months ended September 30, 2025 are not comparable with the previous corresponding period" due to acquisition of south-based India Cements Ltd, Wonder WallCare and Ras Al Khaimah, UAE-based RAKWCT.
Moreover, the scheme for merger of cement business of Kesoram Industries with UltraTech and their respective shareholders and creditors was also effective from March 1, 2025.
UltraTech's total income, which includes other income as well, was at ₹19,781.07 crore in the September quarter.
In the September quarter, UltraTech's consolidated sales volume was up 6.9 per cent to 33.85 metric tonnes.
"UltraTech achieved a growth of 22.3 per cent in domestic grey cement without considering the sales volumes of India Cements and Kesoram in the previous year since they were not part of UltraTech during that period.," said an earnings statement from the Aditya Birla Group firm.
This growth has exceeded the expected industry growth of around 5 per cent for the same period, it added.
Total expenses of UltraTech in the September quarter was at ₹18,119.56 crore.
"Energy costs were lower by 7 per cent y-o-y, while raw material costs rose 5 per cent on account of an increase in the cost of flyash and slag. Operating EBITDA per tonne for the existing UltraTech assets of 166.76 mtpa is at ₹966 per tonne," it said India Cements, a south India-based cement maker, which it acquired earlier this year and Kesoram have generated an operating EBITDA of ₹386 per tonne and ₹755 per tonne, respectively.
"Both the acquisitions are rapidly improving with 55 per cent of Kesoram volumes and 31 per cent of India Cements volumes already transitioned to the power of UltraTech brand," it said.
In the first half of the fiscal (H1/FY26), UltraTech's total income was at ₹41,238.75 crore.
The company further informed, it has passed full benefit of reduction in duty to its customers under the GST reforms by the government.
Published on October 19, 2025

