Full Article Fetch Test - PAR
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-15): 33.28M

Title   : Uber luxury shopping in India: Aditya Birla Fashion brings Paris's Galeries Lafayette to Mumbai
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-15T14:30:06
Fetched : 2025-10-15T16:50:18.737252
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/luxury-fashion-galeries-lafayette-india-aditya-birla-dior-hermes-chanel-11760525974945.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Uber luxury shopping in India: Aditya Birla Fashion brings Paris's Galeries Lafayette to Mumbai
Aditya Birla Fashion is opening the first-ever India outpost of Galeries Lafayette, the iconic luxury department store chain from Paris, in Mumbai, with another store planned in Delhi. Top executives say India will be a bright spot in an otherwise slowing global market for personal luxury goods.
More than three years after announcing a partnership, Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail is set to open the first Indian outpost of Galeries Lafayette, the iconic Parisian luxury department store chain.
Spread over two buildings and five floors in south Mumbai’s Fort area, the high street shopping store brand will offer more than 250 international luxury brands, two-thirds of which are coming to India for the first time. The store is expected to open its doors for shoppers in November.
Apart from top brands from Europe such as Dior and Chanel, Galeries Lafayette will retail well-known luxury brands from Japan and Korea including Commes des Garçons (Tokyo) and Joseon Beauty (Seoul). Parisian brand Hermès, which also has a standalone store in Fort, Mumbai, will sell its beauty products at Galeries Lafayette as well.
Galeries Lafayette and Aditya Birla Fashion are betting on the soaring demand for personal luxury goods in India, as the country mints more dollar millionaires. India added 39,000 dollar millionaires in 2024 taking the total to 917,000, according to the Swiss bank UBS's Global Wealth Report, 2025.
Internationally, Galeries Lafayette's competition includes Harrods of London, Bergdorf Goodman in the US, and Printemps, France, none of which have a presence in India.
India a key market
Galeries Lafayette gets 37 million visitors a year in our Paris store, and half of whom are international, CEO Arthur Lemoine told Mint in an interview. “Clearly, we see many Indians there already. We know India is a key and strategic market. Indian customers can shop abroad in Dubai, Singapore, and Paris. But they are also asking for and expect to consume locally."
Brokerage firm Kotak Securities this May said India's luxury market grew to $17.67 billion in 2024 and will hit $85 billion by 2030. Much of this growth, to be sure, comes from spending on jewellery, especially during wedding season, while the sale of luxury cars is also a fast-growing segment.
Galeries Lafayette will also open a store in Delhi, although the timeline is unclear.
As global luxury brands spread their retail footprint, Indians initially had access only to them, said Ashish Dikshit, managing director of Aditya Birla Fashion. “But in the last 5-7 years in particular, Indians have more confidence and have started to do more discovery, exploring more brands and looking for upcoming labels and designers."
To capture demand from upwardly mobile Indian consumers, Mumbai’s Galeries Lafayette is designed to offer a “ladder to luxury," noted R Sathyajit, CEO of International Brands for Aditya Birla Fashion. For instance, one floor of the Mumbai store is dedicated to bags and the basement to cosmetics and beauty products — categories that most Indians make their first luxury purchase in.
The “sweet spot" for these entry-level luxury purchases can include a ₹3,000 Chanel lipstick or a small luxury brand bag worth ₹20-30,000, going up to ₹80,000 to ₹1.5 lakh, Sathyajit added. Other offerings for those flirting with luxury shopping include a floor dedicated to unisex casual and streetwear fashion with brands such as Commes des Garçons and Les Yeux, where shoppers can pick up a T-shirt for ₹5-6,000 apiece and a pair of jeans starting ₹10,000 a pair.
Global luxe slows
While Reliance Industries Ltd’s Reliance Brands has dominated the business of franchising foreign luxury brands in India, Aditya Birla Fashion has been making inroads into the business. In fiscal 2025, the Reliance company reported revenue from operations of ₹2,337 crore, up 3.3% year on year.
Aditya Birla Fashion’s luxury division crossed ₹500 crore in revenue in FY25, per its annual report. This division includes the multi-brand store chain The Collective, along with franchises for westernwear luxury brands Ralph Lauren, Fred Perry, and Ted Baker among others.
In 2021, the company acquired a controlling stake in luxury label Sabyasachi for nearly ₹400 crore, following up with another deal for a controlling stake in rival luxury label Tarun Tahiliani in 2024. A year later, the company also acquired a controlling stake in designer label Masaba for ₹90 crore.
The global market for luxury has slowed down drastically since 2023 after years of growth more from increased prices rather than sales volumes, consulting firm McKinsey said in a report this January. Economic slowdown in Europe and China has hit sales for luxury biggies such as LVMH and Kering. (This week, LVMH reported a 1% jump in sales for the September quarter, though.)
In this scenario, India has emerged as a bright spot for luxury brands and retailers companies searching for a new, eager customer base to sell to.
“The real challenge in India is luxury supply, not demand," Anand Ramanathan, partner for the consumer industry practice at consulting firm Deloitte, told Mint. “Indians are already going abroad to buy. But luxury brands coming to India need an ecosystem – the right location, parking, mall space. There isn’t enough of that ecosystem just yet in India."
He pointed out that while DLF Emporio in Delhi and Phoenix Palladium and Jio World Plaza in Mumbai have become luxury shopping destinations, there is much more demand for luxury shopping in the top five to seven cities in India. For now, customers in these places have to make do with smaller outlets in five star hotels or shop abroad.
Besides, Ramanathan added, some malls such as the Phoenix Mall of Asia in Bengaluru that were initially positioned as a luxury destination changed over time opening up to non-luxury brands due to slow business.

Title   : Indian Oil’s Terra Clean in talks to buy 50% stake in Fourth Partner Energy
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-15T06:58:30
Fetched : 2025-10-15T16:50:18.737429
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/indian-oil-terra-clean-fourth-partner-energy-acquisition-11760502047447.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Indian Oil’s Terra Clean in talks to buy 50% stake in Fourth Partner Energy
This would be Indian Oil Corp.'s first acquisition in the renewable energy space. The proposed deal involves primary and secondary share transactions, providing a partial exit for Fourth Partner’s stakeholders, including the World Bank and Asian Development Bank.
New Delhi: Indian Oil Corp., the country’s largest crude oil refiner, plans to acquire a 50% stake in renewable energy firm Fourth Partner Energy Pvt. Ltd (FPEL) through its subsidiary Terra Clean Ltd in a deal with an estimated equity value of about $400 million, according to two people aware of the development.
The deal, if it goes forward, will mark the state-run oil marketing company’s first acquisition in the green energy space. It will be a mix of primary and secondary share transactions and will provide a partial exit to Hyderabad-based Fourth Partner Energy’s stakeholders—the World Bank’s International Finance Corp (IFC), Asian Development Bank (ADB), Germany’s Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft (DEG), TPG Capital’s RISE Fund, and Norway’s Norfund.
“Indian Oil’s renewable energy subsidiary, Terra Clean Ltd, is in talks for a stake in Fourth Partner Energy. However, nothing has been finalised," one of the two people said, requesting anonymity.
Terra Clean was set up in May 2024 as a wholly owned unit of Indian Oil and plans to install 5.3 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy capacity.
Given the changing hydrocarbon landscape, Indian Oil has been looking at acquisitions in the clean energy space in the backdrop of ONGC NTPC Green Pvt Ltd buying National Investment and Infrastructure Fund-backed Ayana Renewable Power Pvt Ltd. The move by domestic state-run energy companies comes as global oil companies including Shell Plc, Total, Thailand’s PTT Group and Malaysia’s state-run Petronas unit Gentari Sdn Bhd establish a presence in India’s green energy sector.
A Fourth Partner spokesperson declined to comment.
An Indian Oil spokesperson did not respond to queries emailed on Monday evening.
“At this stage, we have no comments to offer," Terra Clean chief executive officer (CEO) Atul Parmar said in an emailed response.
“For reasons of confidentiality we cannot comment on business activities in individual cases," a DEG spokesperson said in an emailed response.
“I’m afraid we would give this a pass given the speculative nature of the query," an IFC spokesperson said in an emailed response.
Spokespersons for TPG, ADB and Norfund declined to comment.
Overseas operations
Fourth Partner has 1.5GW of installed green energy capacity, with 2GW of wind and solar projects under development. With operations in Vietnam, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, Fourth Partner plans to reach an installed capacity of 3.5GW by 2025. It was founded in 2010 as a solar component and engineering, procurement and construction firm.
IFC, ADB and DEG announced a $275 million equity investment in Fourth Partner in August last year. IFC invested $125 million, ADB infused $100 million and DEG put in $50 million. With a $145 million investment, Norfund is the single largest investor in Fourth Partner.
Indian Oil plans to develop 31GW of renewable energy capacity by the end of this decade and has been putting the building blocks in place. In response to a query about ONGC and NTPC buying out green energy companies, Indian Oil chairman and managing director Arvinder Singh Sahney said in an earlier interview to Mint: “Yes, we are also on the lookout, and we will also be going forward."
In May this year, Indian Oil announced an investment of ₹1,086 crore in Terra Clean to develop 4.3GW of renewable energy capacity. Earlier, the company had sanctioned ₹1,303.75 crore for developing 1GW of green power capacity through Terra Clean.
In 2023, the company formed a joint venture—IndianOil NTPC Green Energy Pvt Ltd—with NTPC Green Energy Ltd to set up renewable projects to meet the round-the-clock power requirements of its refineries.
With 10 refineries, Indian Oil has a refining capacity of 70.25 million metric tonnes per annum (mtpa). Taking into account the additional 10.5 mtpa capacity of group company Chennai Petroleum Corp., it has a total of 80.75 mtpa, accounting for 31% of the country's overall refining capacity of 258.1 mtpa.
C&I projects
Fourth Partner caters to the commercial and industrial (C&I) segment, which has attracted strong investor interest, given the regulatory landscape being supportive of the space with rules allowing large power users to source energy from the open market rather than the costlier grid. C&I projects are also shielded from risks such as power procurement curtailment by state-run power distribution firms.
Also, the implementation of time-of-day tariffs for large C&I category consumers by state electricity regulatory commissions has helped sustain investor interest. With time-of-day tariffs, the cost of electricity changes depending on when it is consumed—during peak, off-peak or normal hours.
There are several green energy deals in play in India, given the scale of opportunities that the space offers. India has an installed renewable energy capacity of 245GW, of which solar and wind power account for 116GW and 52GW, respectively.
India plans to add 50GW of green energy capacity annually to reach 500GW by 2030. Given the nation’s green energy transition trajectory and the net-zero emissions target by 2070, the plan is to add 1,800GW of renewable energy capacity by 2047 and 5,000GW by 2070.
Transactions as reported by Mint include the $1 billion sale of Vena Energy India launched by Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. in October.
European alternative asset manager EQT dropped a plan to sell renewable developer Zelestra’s India operations and instead transferred it to its Asia Pacific infrastructure team. EQT will invest about $600 million to develop the portfolio and brought in Parag Sharma, former CEO and founder of EQT—and Temasek-backed O2 Power, to head the company, replacing incumbent CEO Sajay K.V.
Sembcorp Industries Ltd, Torrent Power Ltd, INOXGFL Group’s Inox Green Energy Services Ltd and General Atlantic-owned Actis Llp are among half-a-dozen shortlisted bidders to conduct due diligence to acquire Macquarie Asset Management Green Investment Group (GIG) platform Vibrant Energy in a transaction codenamed Project Notos, with an enterprise value of about $600 million.

