Full Article Fetch Test - NTPC
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-09-05): 174.50B INR

Title   : Why these 18 stocks, including HCL Tech, Indian Hotels, NTPC, Sical Logistics, Dreamfolks and Travel Food, are in focus today
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-09-05T02:10:36
Fetched : 2025-09-05T03:27:02.562604
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/markets/why-these-18-stocks-including-hcl-tech-indian-hotels-ntpc-sical-logistics-dreamfolks-and-travel-food-are-in-focus-today/article70014849.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SailPoint, Inc. and HCLTech, a leading global technology company, have announced a partnership to provide modern identity security solutions built for the scale, speed and complexity of AI-enabled enterprise environments. This partnership brings together SailPoint Identity Security Cloud, delivered via SailPoint’s AI-driven identity platform, SailPoint Atlas, with HCLTech’s deep capabilities and experience helping large organisations manage identity at scale.
Indian Hotels detects malware attack; operations unaffected
Indian Hotels Company (IHC) informed the exchange that it has detected a malware incident affecting select IT systems. The company took immediate action to contain the impact and secure systems, notifying relevant authorities. Despite the breach, IHC assures that business operations remain unaffected and continue normally.
NTPC retires 440 MW Tanda Thermal Power Station Stage-I
NTPC Tanda Thermal Power Station, Stage-I, comprising four units of 110 MW each, has been permanently discontinued with effect from September 1. With this, the total installed and commercial capacity of NTPC group has become 82,926 MW
Concord Control Systems unveils India’s first indigenous zero-emission propulsion system
Concord Control Systems Ltd (CCSL), India’s leading manufacturer of embedded electronics systems and critical electronic solutions through its Advanced Rail Division, has announced India’s first fully indigenous zero-emission propulsion system. Designed and built entirely in India, this breakthrough highlights India’s engineering capabilities towards the nation’s ambition of achieving net-zero emissions and complete railway electrification by 2030.
Bank of Baroda declares RCom, Anil Ambani’s loans as ‘fraud’
Bank of Baroda has declared loan accounts of Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCom) and its former promoter, Anil Ambani, as ‘fraud’. This classification applies to loans taken before RCom entered corporate insolvency resolution process. RCom, currently under insolvency proceedings, states these loans must be resolved through the IBC process. The company is seeking legal advice on the matter. This development occurs amid an ongoing ED investigation into alleged loan fraud involving Anil Ambani’s group entities, with an estimated Rs 17,000 crore involved. Bank of Baroda will report this fraud classification to authorities, including the RBI.
Malpani Pipes inks India distributorship pact with Gaocheng
Malpani Pipes & Fittings Ltd has entered into a Sole Distributorship Agreement with Yongkang Gaocheng Imp. & Exp. Co. Ltd for its core product BST Brand and Gaocheng Pro Brand and other associated brand product for the territory of India. Through this partnership, Malpani will bring to India a wide range of globally respected products under the BST (value segment) and Gaocheng Pro (premium segment) brands. These include Agricultural Equipment, Power Tools, Garden and Plantation Machinery, and Construction & Demolition Tools.
Varun Beverages sets up JV for visi-cooler manufacturing
Varun Beverages has incorporated a joint venture company in India, i.e. White Peak Refrigeration, inter-alia to carry on the business of manufacturing of visi-coolers and other refrigeration equipments etc.
RPP Infra wins ₹134.21 crore road project in Maharashtra
RPP Infra Projects Ltd has been received letter of acceptance for a new work order EPC KN-II 5A Improvement of Matheran Neral Kalamb road Tal. Karjat Dist Raighad Maharastra for the Contract value of Rs 134.21 crore.
Sical Logistics sells Chennai property for ₹29 crore
Sical Logistics Ltd has undertaken the sale of its non-core assets situated in Madhavaram Village, Chennai for Rs 29 crore. The sale of non-core assets is in line with the resolution plan for the company submitted by Pristine Malwa Logistics Park Private Limited and approved by the National Company Law Tribunal, Chennai bench, under Section 31 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, as amended, vide its order dated December 8, 2022.
Travel Food Services ends Dreamfolks lounge services deal
Travel Food Services Ltd has issued a notice to terminate the extended arrangement for providing lounge access services for lounges operated by the company, to customers of Dreamfolks Services Limited, effective from September 15 2025. TFSL was entitled to provide access to its operated lounges for eligible customers of Dreamfolks, in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in the said agreement.
Kinetic Engineering inaugurates robotic chassis line in Maharashtra
Kinetic Engineering Ltd., part of Kinetic India, has inaugurated its advanced Robotic Chassis Line at its facility in Ahilya Nagar, Maharashtra. The newly commissioned line integrates robotic welding for the Kinetic DX EV, clamping auto fixtures, and a dedicated cell for scooter framing, ensuring consistent precision, structural accuracy, and higher productivity. This automation-driven approach reduces the margin of error while enhancing operational efficiency and safety.
Yasho Industries inks 15-year deal worth ₹150 crore annually
Yasho Industries Limited, a manufacturer & supplier of specialty chemicals, has announced that the company has signed a long-term agreement for a period of 15 years with a global MNC for the supply of a lubricant additive. The company shall receive an advance to build the facility.
Vikram Kamats Hospitality expands with Bengaluru hotel lease
Vikram Kamats Hospitality Ltd, as part of its continued expansion strategy in key metropolitan markets, informs that its material subsidiary, Vitizen Hotels Ltd, has executed a long-term lease agreement for the operation of a hotel property located at No. 4, HBR 1st Stage, 5th Block, Manyata Tech Park, Bengaluru - 560045. The property comprises approximately 45 keys and is strategically situated within the prominent IT hub of Bengaluru, thereby offering strong visibility and significant potential to cater to the growing demand from corporate travellers, business professionals, and long-stay guests in the region.
TTK Prestige signs long-term labour settlement at Gujarat unit
TTK Prestige Limited has successfully concluded a long-term settlement covering its permanent workmen at the Karjan, Gujarat unit of the company. This settlement provides for improved productivity commensurate with the increased benefits extended to the workmen.
Meta Infotech secures new purchase orders worth ₹53.66 lakh
Meta Infotech Limited has received a fresh of purchase orders, aggregating to Rs. 53.66 lakh.
Yasho Industries has signed a 15-year supply agreement with a leading global multinational corporation for the supply of lubricant additives, a deal that will generate about ₹150 crore in annual revenue starting from the end of fiscal 2027. The sales price will be based on an agreed-upon formula with our customer. We will be setting up the facility to build the plant in the next 12 to 18 months. Supplies are likely to commence in the fourth quarter of FY27, it added in a regulatory filing.
Published on September 5, 2025

Title   : Stocks in news: Zydus Life, NTPC, HDFC Life, Varun Beverages, TVS Motor 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-09-05T00:48:40
Fetched : 2025-09-05T03:27:02.563610
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/news/stocks-in-news-zydus-life-ntpc-hdfc-life-varun-beverages-tvs-motor/articleshow/123709183.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Zydus Lifesciences
Zydus Lifesciences said its subsidiary has joined hands with the Netherlands-based Synthon BV to introduce a generic drug for the treatment of multiple sclerosis in the US market.
NTPC
State-owned power giant NTPC announced permanent discontinuation of operations of its 440-MW Stage-I of Tanda thermal project in Uttar Pradesh from September 1.
RVNL
Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd and Texmaco Rail, which recently signed a joint venture agreement to develop India's next-generation railway ecosystem, will incorporate a new company by November.
HDFC Life
HDFC Life said it expects less than 0.5% impact on embedded value from GST change.
Sammaan Capital
Sammaan Capital appointed Himanshu Mody as the Deputy CEO effective September 4.
Bharat Forge
Bharat Forge's arm Agneyastra Energetics has signed an agreement with Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation for the purchase of a land parcel.
Varun Beverages
Varun Beverages will manufacture visi-coolers under its joint venture White Peak Refrigeration, formed with Everest International Holdings.
TVS Motor
TVS Motor Company announced the launch of the TVS NTORQ 150, calling it India’s first hyper sport scooter designed for Gen Z riders.
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price
(What's moving Sensex and Nifty Track latest market news, stock tips, Budget 2025, Share Market on Budget 2025 and expert advice, on ETMarkets. Also, ETMarkets.com is now on Telegram. For fastest news alerts on financial markets, investment strategies and stocks alerts, subscribe to our Telegram feeds .)
Subscribe to ET Prime and read the Economic Times ePaper Online.and Sensex Today.
Top Trending Stocks: SBI Share Price, Axis Bank Share Price, HDFC Bank Share Price, Infosys Share Price, Wipro Share Price, NTPC Share Price

