Full Article Fetch Test - APOLLO
================================================================================

Financial metrics temporarily unavailable (rate limited) - 2025-09-24

Title   : Competition Commission clears Apollo Hospitals group entities restructuring plan
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-09-23T14:42:43
Fetched : 2025-09-24T03:20:44.936010
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/competition-commission-clears-apollo-hospitals-group-entities-restructuring-plan-11758638564327.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
New Delhi, Sep 23 (PTI) Fair trade regulator CCI on Tuesday approved a multi-layered restructuring plan involving Apollo Hospital's group entities Apollo Healthco and Keimed, and a wholly-owned subsidiary Apollo Healthtech Ltd.
The move came after Apollo Hospitals Enterprise in June this year said its board has approved the separate listing of its omnichannel pharmacy and digital health businesses within 18-21 months, as part of reorganisation exercise to unlock value.
According to the regulator, the restructuring will be carried out in several stages under a composite scheme of arrangement that was cleared by the boards and audit committees of the Apollo group entities in June this year.
As part of the transaction, the identified business undertaking of Apollo Health Enterprise Ltd (AHEL) will be demerged into Apollo Healthtech Ltd (AHTL).
This will be followed by the merger and amalgamation of Apollo Healthco Ltd (AHL) and Keimed Pvt Ltd with and into AHTL, paving the way for consolidation of healthcare and distribution businesses.
After these steps, the equity shares of AHTL will be listed on the stock exchanges.
The final stage of the transaction provides for the acquisition of 74.5 per cent shareholding of Apollo Medicals Pvt Ltd (AMPL) by AHTL from existing shareholders under a share purchase agreement executed between AHL, AMPL and its shareholders.
"CCI approves the proposed combination involving demerger of the identified business undertaking of AHEL into AHTL, merger and amalgamation of AHL and Keimed with and into AHTL, and acquisition of 74.5 per cent shareholding of AMPL by AHTL," CCI said in a post on X.
AHL operates the "Apollo 24|7" platform, which facilitates booking of doctor consultations and diagnostic tests, besides engaging in the pharmacy distribution business.
On the other hand, Keimed is engaged in wholesale and retail distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical and surgical equipment, and FMCG items.
In June, the board of directors of Apollo Hospitals and Apollo HealthCo, a subsidiary of the healthcare major, accorded in-principle approval for the composite scheme of arrangement.
The scheme creates a formidable omnichannel pharmacy distribution and digital health platform leader in India, with stated plans to achieve ₹25,000 crore revenue by FY27.
Apollo Hospitals Enterprise MD Suneeta Reddy said the proposal enables the healthcare provider's shareholders to gain direct shareholding in the country's largest omni-channel pharmacy and digital health platform.
In a separate release, the competition watchdog cleared the proposed combination involving acquisition of IRB Hapur Moradabad Tollway Ltd, Kaithal Tollway Ltd, and Kishangarh Gulabpura Tollway Ltd by IRB InvIT Fund.
The anti-trust regulator also granted its nod for the acquisition of units of IRB InvIT Fund by Anahera Investment Pte Ltd.
"The acquisition of units of the public InvIT through institutional placement subject to pricing and other considerations. The manner and timing of such placement will be determined by the Public InvIT, and is subject to market and other considerations, the release said.
Anahera is part of the Singapore's sovereign wealth fund GIC while IRB InvIT (Infrastructure Investment Trust) Fund is the country's first listed InvIT.
In another release, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) also approved the acquisition of OC Oerlikon Textile Holding AG, Pfäffikon and Oerlikon Textile Inc (collectively targets) by Rieter Holding AG and Rieter North America Inc.
Switzerland-headquartered Rieter Holding AG is a global manufacturerof machinery and components for the textile industry while the targets are manufacturers of spinning systems used for manufacturing filaments and manmade fibers, texturing machines, and non-woven solutions.
The deals beyond a certain threshold require approval from the regulator, which keeps a tab on unfair business practices as well as promotes fair competition in the marketplace.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesNewsCompetition Commission clears Apollo Hospitals group entities restructuring plan

Title   : Focus will be on Swiggy, Infosys, HCL Tech, Apollo Hospital, IEX, Akzo Nobel, Ceinsys Tech, Torrent Power, Indian Hotels, Parsvnath Developers, AB Cotspin, Bajaj Electrical, Schloss Bangalore on Wednesday, September 24
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-09-24T03:01:14
Fetched : 2025-09-24T03:20:44.937022
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/markets/focus-will-be-on-swiggy-infosys-hcl-tech-apollo-hospital-iex-akzo-nobel-ceinsys-tech-torrent-power-indian-hotels-parsvnath-developers-ab-cotspin-bajaj-electrical-schloss-bangalore-on-wednesday-septemb/article70087234.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The board of Swiggy, which also owns Instamart, has approved the sale of its stake in Roppen Transportation Services, which operates bike taxi aggregator Rapido, for a total consideration of nearly ₹2,400 crore. On July 31, Swiggy had said it is “actively re-evaluating” its investment in Rapido, as a potential conflict of interest may arise due to the latter’s intention of entering the food delivery space. In a regulatory filing, Swiggy informed that its Board of Directors have approved “the proposal for sale of 10 equity shares and 1,63,990 Series D Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares (“CCPS”) held by the Ccompany in Roppen TransportatServices Pvt Ltd (Rapido) to MIH Investments One BV, a company incorporated in the Netherlands”.
Fair trade regulator CCI on Tuesday approved a multi-layered restructuring plan involving Apollo Hospital’s group entities Apollo Healthco and Keimed, and a wholly-owned subsidiary Apollo Healthtech Ltd. The move came after Apollo Hospitals Enterprise in June this year said its board has approved the separate listing of its omnichannel pharmacy and digital health businesses within 18-21 months, as part of a reorganisation exercise to unlock value. According to the regulator, the restructuring will be carried out in several stages under a composite scheme of arrangement that was cleared by the boards and audit committees of the Apollo group entities in June this year. In a separate statement, Apollo Hospitals Group said it is planning to open an additional five Apollo Genomics Institutes mainly in the tier-II and III cities in the east, north and the central part of the country that will help in integrating genomics into mainstream clinical care.
Prisma European Capacity Platform GmbH and Indian Gas Exchange Ltd (IGX), an arm of Indian Energy Exchange (IEX), have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on gas market cooperation to support transparent, efficient, and sustainable gas markets. “The MoU intends to build a basis for cooperation and development of modern, transparent and efficient gas markets, explore digital solutions for booking and trading gas and LNG, along with exchanging knowledge and best practices,” IGX said in a statement.
Lemon Tree Hotels has announced the signing of two new properties - Keys Prima by Lemon Tree Hotels, Varanasi and Keys Select by Lemon Tree Hotels, Rewa. Keys Prima by Lemon Tree Hotels, Varanasi will be franchised under Lemon Tree Hotels Ltd and will feature 153 well-appointed rooms. Additionally, it will feature a restaurant, banquets, a conference room, a swimming pool, fitness centre and spa, along with other public areas. The Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport, Varanasi is approximately 31 km away from the property, while the Varanasi Railway Junction is about 12 km away. The hotel is well connected by roadways for both public and private transport.
HCL Technologies has renewed its long-standing digital transformation agreement with one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment, marine and industrial engines, and comprehensive transport solutions, headquartered in Gothenburg, Sweden. Under the new agreement, HCL Tech will modernise and enhance the Sweden automaker’s IT infrastructure through AI-powered digital foundation services. HCL Tech will use its proprietary GenAI-led platform, AI Force, to deliver platform-based managed services, hyper automation, and full-stack observability.
Infosys has announced the expansion of its strategic long-term collaboration with Sunrise, Switzerland’s leading challenger, with a strong number two position in the Swiss telecommunications market, to accelerate its IT transformation. Infosys will support Sunrise in fostering a modern, agile, and secure technology foundation to drive innovation and continue securing its future readiness.
According to market buzz, Imperial Chemical Industries is likely to divest up to 5 per cent stake in paint maker Akzo Nobel through a block deal. The offer size is pegged at ₹742.7 crore, with a floor price of ₹3,261.80 per share.
Ceinsys Tech has received a Letter of Award (LoA) from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority for “Appointment of Agency for Upgradation and Procurement of ESRI ArcGIS Software Products Enterprise Agreement at MMRDA” amounting to ₹15.95 crore, excluding GST.
Torrent Power has acquired stakes in Newzone India Pvt Ltd and its holding company Newzone Power Projects Pvt Ltd for around ₹211 crore. Newzone Power Projects Pvt Ltd (NZPPPL) is the holding company of Newzone India Pvt Ltd (NZIPL), Torrent Power said in an exchange filing.
Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL) has signed a 310-key Taj hotel in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. This greenfield project will mark the debut of the Taj Hotel in the coastal city.
Realty firm Parsvnath Developers Ltd on Tuesday said it has tied up with Emperor Infratech to complete a 113-acre township in Punjab. In a regulatory filing, the company said its project located at Rajpura, Punjab, on the land admeasuring 112.856 acres. This is an integrated township with plots, group housing, commercial complexes, clubs, schools, etc.
Textile manufacturer A B Cotspin India Ltd on Tuesday said it has secured an order worth around Rs 18 crore for supplying 712 tonnes of cotton yarn. The order is to be executed within two months, the company said in a statement.
Techknowgreen Solutions has been awarded a “sub-contract work order” amounting to Rs 1.40 crore excluding GST. This order was received from Anaya Consultancy Services for work with the primary client, Amanthin Info Parks Pvt Ltd.
The Board of Bajaj Electricals has given its consent to a proposal for the acquisition of the ‘Morphy Richards’ brand and related intellectual property rights in the territories of India, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, the Maldives, and Sri Lanka, from Glen Electric Limited (part of the Glen Dimplex Group, Ireland), the owner of the MR Brand/Business IP, for a consideration of Rs 146 crore (exclusive of any taxes/duties, etc. payable in the Territory). This transaction will be subject to negotiation and execution of definitive agreements between the parties and the receipt of necessary statutory and regulatory approvals, as applicable.
Schloss Bangalore on Tuesday said it has received approval from the Ministry of Corporate Affairs to change its name to Leela Palaces Hotels & Resorts Ltd with immediate effect. The move is aimed at aligning the company’s corporate identity with its The Leela brand, which operates luxury hotels and resorts in India. The company got listed on the stock exchanges in June.
Published on September 24, 2025

Title   : Apollo Hospital Share Price Live Updates: Apollo Hospital's Last Trading Session 
Source  : economictimes.indiatimes.com
Published: 2025-09-24T02:39:47
Fetched : 2025-09-24T03:20:44.937022
URL     : https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/markets/stocks/stock-liveblog/apollo-hospital-share-price-live-24-sep-2025/liveblog/124081594.cms
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Business News›Markets›Stocks›Stock Live Blog›Apollo Hospital Share Price Live Updates: Apollo Hospital's Last Trading Session
LIVE BLOG
Stay up-to-date with the Apollo Hospital Stock Liveblog, your comprehensive source for real-time updates and detailed analysis on a prominent stock. Explore the latest information on Apollo Hospital, including: Last traded price 7684.0, Market capitalization: 110484.13, Volume: 443180, Price-to-earnings ratio 70.22, Earnings per share 109.43. Our liveblog provides a comprehensive overview of Apollo Hospital by integrating fundamental and technical indicators. Stay informed about breaking news that can impact Apollo Hospital's performance in the market. Our expert analysis and stock recommendations empower you to make well-informed financial decisions. Join us on this journey as we delve into the exciting world of Apollo Hospital and its market potential. The data points are updated as on 08:41:56 AM IST, 24 Sep 2025
Show more1 New Update
Apollo Hospital's stock closed at Rs 7739.0 yesterday, marking its performance in the market.
The latest data shows that Apollo Hospital's returns have decreased by 2.15% over the last week, indicating a shift in investor sentiment.
With a six-month beta of 1.0681, Apollo Hospital demonstrates a moderate correlation with market movements.
Apollo Hospital has achieved a commendable return of 9.65% in the last three months.
Apollo Hospital's stock finished at Rs 7,739.0 on the previous day, down 0.71%, with a trading volume of 302,818 shares.
1
Have something to say? Post your comment
Comments are moderated and will be allowed if they are about the topic and not abusive.
Characters remaining (1500)

