Full Article Fetch Test - TRU
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-22): -90980000.00

Title   : Tata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan as ‘trustee for life’ amid internal conflict
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-21T10:43:52
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.187943
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/tata-trusts-reappoints-venu-srinivasan-as-trustee-for-life-amid-internal-conflict-11761042429086.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tata Group's philanthropy arm, Tata Trusts, has unanimously re-appointed Venu Srinivasan as a trustee for life amid reports of internal conflict among the divisions within the organisation, news agency PTI reported on Tuesday, 21 October 2025.
Venu Srinivasan's re-appointment comes right ahead of his tenure expiry date on 23 October 2025, at a time when the people within Tata Trusts are vertically split. One group aligns with Noel Tata, who took over the reins after Ratan Tata's demise, and the other with Mehli Mistry, who has ties with the extended Shapoorji Pallonji family.
People aware of the development told the agency that Srinivasan's re-appointment was unanimous. However, Tata Trust refused to respond to the news agency's queries.
Renewal and fresh appointment is required to be unanimous as per past practice - a person aware of the development said.
With Venu Srinivasan's re-appointment, the focus now shifts to the re-appointment of Mehli Mistry as a trustee, whose term expires on 28 October 2025.
Mistry's re-appointment and continuation as a trustee will require the unanimous approval of the trustees for the lifetime tenure appointment, according to the report.
“Renewal and fresh appointment is required to be unanimous as per past practice. Renewal, after which it will be for life, requires unanimous approval,” a person aware of the development told the news agency.
They also said that the re-appointment is automatic and applies to all trustees.
Tata Trusts oversees several charitable trusts, including the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and the Sir Ratan Tata Trust. The entity also holds a 66% stake in Tata Sons, the main holding company, which owns stakes in all Tata Group firms.
According to the report, the original meeting held on 17 October 2024 resolved that if the tenure of a trustee expires, they are to be re-appointed by the trust concerned without any limit attached to the period of validity.
The report also said that if any trustee chooses to vote against this motion, they would be in breach of the commitment and would not be fit to serve at ‘Tata Trusts by such conduct’.
The Shapoorji Pallonji family owns more than 18% stake in Tata Sons, the holding company for all Tata Group companies.
On Friday, 10 October 2025, the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, in an official statement, said that they believe that the listing of the holding company, Tata Sons, will boost the spirit of transparency for the firm.
“We firmly believe that listing this premier institution will not only uphold the spirit of transparency envisioned by its founding father, Shri Jamsetji Tata, but also strengthen trust among all stakeholders -- employees, investors, and the people of India,” said the SP Group in its statement cited in a PTI report.
This comes amid the infighting among the trustees of the Tata Trusts over the public listing of Tata Sons.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
Business NewsCompaniesNewsTata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan as ‘trustee for life’ amid internal conflict

Title   : Trump Official Warns China Against Penalizing Companies Investing in US
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-20T23:49:41
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.188314
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/trump-official-warns-china-against-penalizing-companies-investing-in-us-11761004182042.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Trump administration warned China not to retaliate against foreign companies helping the US to develop critical industries, after Beijing last week sanctioned the US units of a South Korean shipping giant over its plans to invest in the American maritime sector.
“China’s recent retaliatory actions against private companies across the globe is part of a broader pattern of economic coercion to influence American politics and control global supply chains by discouraging foreign companies from investing in America’s shipbuilding and other critical industries,” US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer said in a statement Monday.
Greer’s warning is the latest step in a long-standing series of maritime disputes between the US and China, which accounts for more than half of the world’s shipbuilding and has sought in recent years to increase its control of the critical South China Sea. The battle has implications for the global economy, as vessels are responsible for moving more than 80% of international trade.
While the US maintains the world’s most powerful navy, it has comparatively minimal shipbuilding capabilities. As such, the Trump administration has sought to bolster US shipbuilding by inviting investment from South Korea, the world’s second-largest shipbuilder.
The sanctions China announced last week hit at that effort directly — prohibiting people or organizations in China from transacting with US units of South Korea’s Hanwha Ocean Co., while threatening further retaliatory measures on the industry.
“Attempts at intimidation will not stop the United States from rebuilding its shipbuilding base and responding appropriately to China’s targeting of critical industrial sectors for dominance,” Greer said.
It’s far from the only example. Both sides have slapped special port fees on each other’s commercial vessels, which took effect last week. The US is also set to levy a 100% tariff on Chinese imports of essential port equipment and floated a 150% import tax on other cargo handling equipment. Trump has sought to minimize Chinese companies’ control of critical global ports, including around the Panama Canal.
Shipping is one of several points of contention in the China-US relationship that has kept global investors on edge in recent days. Beijing has tightened export controls on rare earths among other measures, while the US has expanded curbs on China’s access to chips and threatened the country with additional 100% tariffs.
Earlier Monday, President Donald Trump said he anticipated discussing China’s territorial ambitions regarding the self-governing island of Taiwan when he meets with his counterpart, Xi Jinping, next week at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in South Korea. The president sidestepped questions about whether he expected China to link trade concessions in exchange for Taiwan-related asks.
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
This article was generated from an automated news agency feed without modifications to text.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
More

Title   : US government shutdown: Trump tells Senate Republicans to stand firm
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-22T04:28:01
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.188358
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/us-government-shutdown-trump-tells-senate-republicans-to-stand-firm/article70188699.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump urged Senate Republicans to hold the line as the US government shutdown extended into its 21st day, warning Democrats that they would bear the political fallout for the impasse if they did not vote quickly to approve funding.
“Our message has been very simple: We will not be extorted on this crazy plot of theirs,” Trump said Tuesday at an event in the White House’s Rose Garden, where he hosted Senate Republicans for lunch in a display of party unity.
Later Tuesday, Trump said he would meet with Democratic congressional leaders Chuck Schumer and Hakeem Jeffries, but only after the shutdown ends.
“I would love to meet. I would like to meet with both of them, but I set one little caveat. I will only meet if they let the country open,” Trump told reporters, adding that the Democratic party is led by “stupid people.”
Democrats have been pushing for a meeting with Trump, arguing that direct talks is the only way to end the shutdown. Republican leaders have sought to hold a firm line, saying that Democrats need to vote to re-open the government before they will agree to discussions about renewing the health care subsidies at the center of the shutdown fight.
Democrats have insisted they will not reopen the government until Republicans agree to extend Obamacare premium subsidies to head off a spike in insurance premiums for more than 22 million Americans. Republicans in both chambers say they will not extend the subsidies without significant changes.
As the economic strain intensifies, both parties have continued to blame each other over the shutdown. Hundreds of thousands of federal workers will miss a second paycheck in the coming days and the Federal Aviation Administration said there are flight delays and air controller shortages in airports across the country.
Trump argued that voters would hold Democrats responsible for disruptions caused by the shutdown, including federal workers going without pay and shuttered museums.
“Over 1 million federal workers right now, as you know, are going unpaid — that’s the Democrats’ fault — and children, tourists unable to visit the museums in Washington, DC,” he added.
Senate Republican Leader John Thune, speaking to reporters after the lunch, said lawmakers left the White House “hopeful that this will be the week we break out of this.”
Thune said he planned to bring another vote on a continuing resolution Wednesday. They’ll also vote on a measure that would pay federal employees and military service members for working during the shutdown, in a bid to raise pressure on Democrats.
“We’ll see how the Democrats react to that,” Thune said. “At some point the Democrats are going to have to say ‘yes’ for an answer.”
Schumer told reporters Tuesday that he and House Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries wanted to meet with Trump before the president departs later this week for a trip to Asia.
‘Cutting Democrat priorities’
Trump and administration officials have made clear they intend to inflict pain on Democratic constituencies if the standoff continues, using the fight as an opportunity to slash the federal bureaucracy and terminate funding in states run by political opponents. The president has pledged to release a list of federal programmes slated for cuts, which he said would target “Democrat” programmes.
Trump praised White House budget director Russ Vought, whom he likened Tuesday to the Star Wars villain, Darth Vader, for moving to freeze some funding during the standoff.
The US Army Corps of Engineers announced Friday it will pause $11 billion in infrastructure projects in states that voted for Democrat Kamala Harris, Trump’s 2024 election rival. Much of that pause — $7 billion of the total — is in New York state, which Trump has particularly singled out. New York is home to the top Democrats in both the US House and Senate: Jeffries and Schumer, respectively. Earlier this month, the White House halted $18 billion in New York infrastructure funding affecting the Hudson Tunnel Project and Second Avenue Subway.
“Many of the things that they’re cutting, like the New York project, $20 billion we’re cutting it, they’re not going to get it back,” Trump added Tuesday. “They may not get it back. Maybe we’ll talk to them about it, but they’re losing all the things that they wanted.”
Vought has also threatened more federal layoffs, saying he expects government employee dismissals to exceed more than 10,000 workers. Layoff notices have already gone out to more than 4,000 federal employees this month. That move has sparked a court fight, with a federal judge last week ordering the administration to stop shutdown-related reductions in force. Some agencies are moving forward with planned worker layoffs for employees they see as not covered by the order, according to court filings.
With both sides seemingly dug in, in recent days, some hardline conservative lawmakers have expressed more openness to altering the Obamacare subsidies rather than ending them outright.
“If you want to come forward with reforms to the health-care system, I’m happy to look at,” Representative Chip Roy of Texas told reporters about renewing Obamacare subsidies. Any deal, however, would require steep concessions from Democrats.
Johnson, during a Tuesday appearance on CNBC, said he would seek to “bring free market conversation” into any discussion of extending subsidies for Obamacare premiums.
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
Published on October 22, 2025

Title   : Trump again says PM Modi agreed to ease Russian energy buys
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-22T04:43:36
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.188527
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/trump-again-says-pm-modi-agreed-to-ease-russian-energy-buys/article70188735.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
President Donald Trump stressed that India would wind down its purchases of oil from Russia, claiming for the second straight week that he spoke directly about the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
The US President said last week that he had received assurances from Modi in a phone call that India would stop buying oil from Russia, transactions seen by Ukraine’s allies as buoying the Kremlin’s economy and war effort. India’s foreign ministry, however, had said they were not aware of that earlier claimed conversation between the two leaders.
On Tuesday, Trump said he had just spoken to the Prime Minister, adding that they “talked about a lot of things, but mostly the world of trade — he’s very interested in that.”
“He’s not going to buy much oil from Russia. He wants to see that war end as much as I do. He wants to see the war end with Russia, Ukraine, and as you know, they’re not going to be buying too much oil,” Trump added as he hosted a Diwali celebration at the White House.
The Indian embassy didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on a call between the two leaders. The White House also did not immediately respond to a request for more details on the purported call.
Trump hit India with 50 per cent tariffs on its exports to the US in part to pressure New Delhi to stop buying Russian oil and to counter what the US has cast as high levies and other barriers on American goods.
In recent weeks, however, Trump has softened his rhetoric as the two nations carry out talks to clinch a trade deal and lower tariffs. Any effort to scale back Russian energy buys would be a gradual process, and Modi’s government has previously indicated that the country would continue to make those purchases if it is economically viable.
Russian crude import
India became a major importer of Russian crude after the start of the war in Ukraine in 2022, buying oil at a discount. Russian oil makes up about a third of India’s overall imports despite the US push to curb flows.
Trump and Modi have also been at odds over the US president’s claims that he used trade as leverage to broker a ceasefire between India and Pakistan in May. While Pakistan has embraced that assertion — and nominated Trump for a Nobel Peace Prize — Modi and Indian officials have bristled at the notion that the US pressured them into a ceasefire.
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
Published on October 22, 2025

Title   : Trump says he discussed trade with Modi, reiterates India will not buy much Russian oil
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-22T05:41:03
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.188586
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/trump-says-he-discussed-trade-with-modi-reiterates-india-will-not-buy-much-russian-oil/article70188859.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prime Minister Narendra Modi has thanked US President Donald Trump for extending Diwali greetings over the phone.
Trump told reporters at the White House that the call focussed mostly on trade as the two countries were working on “some great deals” but reiterated that India was not going to purchase much crude oil from Russia and was already cutting back on it.
India’s team of trade negotiators had “fruitful” discussions with their US counterparts in Washington last week, moving towards a trade deal but some tricky issues including cutting down of Russian oil purchases still had to be ironed out, a source tracking the matter said.
“Thank you, President Trump, for your phone call and warm Diwali greetings. On this festival of lights, may our two great democracies continue to illuminate the world with hope and stand united against terrorism in all its forms,” Modi posted on social media on Wednesday morning.
The post followed Trump’s comments on the call at a Diwali event at the White House attended by the media, Indian Ambassador to the US Vinay Kwatra, Indian American business representatives, FBI chief Kash Patel, director of US national intelligence Tulsi Gabbard and US Ambassador to India Sergio Gor, among others.
Thank you, President Trump, for your phone call and warm Diwali greetings. On this festival of lights, may our two great democracies continue to illuminate the world with hope and stand united against terrorism in all its forms.@realDonaldTrump@POTUS
— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 22, 2025
Trump said Modi was a great friend and the two countries were working on “some great trade deals”. “I just spoke to your Prime Minister today. We had a great conversation. We talked about trade. We talked about a lot of things, but mostly the world of trade. He’s very interested in that,” he told reporters.
He reiterated his past claims on Modi’s assurance that India would not buy much oil from Russia but tempered it down a bit. “We just have a very good relationship, and he’s not going to buy much oil from Russia. He wants to see that war end as much as with Russia and Ukraine. And as you know, they’re not going to be buying too much oil. So, they’ve got it way back, and they’re continuing to cut it way back,” Trump said.
Earlier, in response to media questions on a similar claim made by Trump, the MEA said that its consistent priority is to safeguard the interests of the Indian consumers in a volatile energy scenario.
Responding to Trump’s comments on Russian oil, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said that it was the fourth time in six days that the US President had announced India’s policy. In a social media post on Wednesday, Ramesh noted that the Indian PM had acknowledged publicly that Trump had called him up but did not say anything beyond the exchange of Diwali greetings between the two.
“...But while Mr Modi conceals, Mr Trump reveals.On his part, the US President has said that in addition to extending Diwali greetings, he spoke of India’s oil imports from Russia and that he had been assured that these imports will be stopped. This is the 4th time in 6 days that the US President has announced India’s policy. Earlier, President Trump had first announced the stoppage of Op Sindoor on the evening of May 10 before Mr Modi did,” Ramesh said in his post.
The US imposed 50 per cent import duties on most Indian goods in August, which included a 25 per cent penal tariff for purchasing Russian oil, and India is focussed on bringing it down to about 15 per cent or below in the ongoing trade negotiations.
Published on October 22, 2025

Title   : Tata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan as trustee; Mistry up for renewal
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-21T15:29:07
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.188632
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/tata-trusts-reappoints-venu-srinivasan-as-trustee-mistry-up-for-renewal/article70187059.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Venu Srinivasan’s reappointment as lifetime trustee on Tata Trusts was unanimously approved by all the members, sources said. The upcoming reappointment of Mehli Mistry in the next few days is being keenly watched.
Multiple sources said that in light of the friction amongst the trustees that has Chairman Noel Tata and Mistry in opposing camps, the reappointment of the latter may not be smooth.
A resolution passed by Tata Trusts in October 2024 stated that when the term of a trustee comes up for renewal, that trustee would be reappointed for life, subject to it being revisited on reaching 75 years, and this was to be an automatic process. Sources aligned with Mistry said Srinivasan’s reappointment was inevitable following this resolution.
Sources close to Noel Tata, however, said that it would depend on the stance taken by him on Mistry’s reappointment.
The outcome is likely to be known in the next couple of days, they said. Mistry’s term ends on October 28.
There was no response to emails sent to Tata Trusts, Mehli Mistry, and office of Noel Tata.
Mistry is part of Tata Trusts executive committee that is responsible for its overall functioning and superintendence. Apart from Mistry, the committee also has Noel Tata, Srinivasan and Vijay Singh.
Srinivasan’s reappointment comes amidst an ongoing rift among the trustees and at the core of that is control of Tata Sons and whether it should be listed or remain privately held.
Earlier, Singh’s reappointment to Tata Sons’ board was blocked by four trustees, including Mistry, whose effort to be appointed on the board was shot down by Tata.
Tata Trusts has taken the position that Tata Sons should remain unlisted, while the Shapoorji Pallonji group is in favour of a listing as that will help it to monetise some portion of its over 18 per cent stake and reduce its liabilities.
Published on October 21, 2025

Title   : Trump says trade topped talks with PM Modi
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-22T01:02:07
Fetched : 2025-10-22T12:28:50.188695
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/trump-says-trade-topped-talks-with-pm-modi/article70188615.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. President Donald Trump said he spoke with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, with their conversation focused largely on trade. “We talked about a lot of things, but mostly the world of trade,” Trump told reporters in the Oval Office.
Trump added that energy was also part of the discussion, saying Modi assured him that India would be limiting its oil purchases from Russia. “He’s not going to buy much oil from Russia. He wants to see that war end as much as I do,” Trump said.
India and China are the two top buyers of Russian seaborne crude exports. Trump has recently targeted India for its Russian oil purchases, imposing tariffs on Indian exports to the U.S. to discourage the country’s crude buying as he seeks to pressure Moscow to negotiate a peace deal in Ukraine.
PM Modi has shared a post on X, thanking Trump for extending Diwali greetings over a phone call.
Thank you, President Trump, for your phone call and warm Diwali greetings. On this festival of lights, may our two great democracies continue to illuminate the world with hope and stand united against terrorism in all its forms.@realDonaldTrump@POTUS
— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) October 22, 2025
More Like This
Published on October 22, 2025

