Full Article Fetch Test - TRU
================================================================================

Net Profit (TTM/latest) (2025-10-21): -90980000.00

Title   : Korean business leaders meet Trump amid tariff talks
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-20T05:08:43
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.407657
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/korean-business-leaders-meet-trump-amid-tariff-talks-11760936923996.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
New Delhi [India], : South Korea's top conglomerate leaders joined U.S. President Donald Trump for a round of golf in Florida, in what observers view as an effort to strengthen economic and diplomatic ties between the two countries, as reported by the Pulse, the English service of Maeil Business Newspaper Korea.
The business leaders met Trump and other global executives at the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach on Saturday, local time. It was the first known instance of a sitting U.S. president playing golf with Korean business leaders.
The participants reportedly included Samsung Electronics Co. Executive Chairman Jay Y. Lee, SK Group Chairman Chey Tae-won, Hyundai Motor Group Executive Chair Euisun Chung, LG Group Chairman Koo Kwang-mo, and Hanwha Group Vice Chairman Kim Dong-kwan.
SoftBank Group Chairman Masayoshi Son is said to have organized the meeting.
According to the White House press pool, Trump arrived at the course at 9:15 a.m. and left around 4:50 p.m., spending roughly seven hours at the venue. It was his 11th round there since returning to office.
The Korean executives reportedly traveled together in an airport limousine bus rather than private vehicles. A black bus believed to be carrying them left the course shortly after Trump's departure and was seen heading to a five-star hotel on Palm Beach Island, where Son was later spotted in the lobby along with aides accompanying the Korean delegation.
It remains unclear who played in Trump's group.
The event was believed to have followed a shotgun start format, in which players begin simultaneously on different holes.
While few details have been confirmed, the gathering was reportedly more than a social occasion. People familiar with the matter said discussions may have touched on investment and trade issues in North America.
The meeting took place as Seoul and Washington are in the final stage of trade negotiations. It also comes as Korean conglomerates expand large-scale U.S. investments in sectors including semiconductors, batteries, automobiles, and energy.
"It's likely that President Trump held in-depth discussions with the heads of major Korean companies," said an industry source. "Given that all the country's top business leaders were present, the meeting probably went beyond a simple round of golf."
This article was generated from an automated news agency feed without modifications to text.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
More

Title   : Trump Official Warns China Against Penalizing Companies Investing in US
Source  : www.livemint.com
Published: 2025-10-20T23:49:41
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.407734
URL     : https://www.livemint.com/companies/news/trump-official-warns-china-against-penalizing-companies-investing-in-us-11761004182042.html
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Trump administration warned China not to retaliate against foreign companies helping the US to develop critical industries, after Beijing last week sanctioned the US units of a South Korean shipping giant over its plans to invest in the American maritime sector.
“China’s recent retaliatory actions against private companies across the globe is part of a broader pattern of economic coercion to influence American politics and control global supply chains by discouraging foreign companies from investing in America’s shipbuilding and other critical industries,” US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer said in a statement Monday.
Greer’s warning is the latest step in a long-standing series of maritime disputes between the US and China, which accounts for more than half of the world’s shipbuilding and has sought in recent years to increase its control of the critical South China Sea. The battle has implications for the global economy, as vessels are responsible for moving more than 80% of international trade.
While the US maintains the world’s most powerful navy, it has comparatively minimal shipbuilding capabilities. As such, the Trump administration has sought to bolster US shipbuilding by inviting investment from South Korea, the world’s second-largest shipbuilder.
The sanctions China announced last week hit at that effort directly — prohibiting people or organizations in China from transacting with US units of South Korea’s Hanwha Ocean Co., while threatening further retaliatory measures on the industry.
“Attempts at intimidation will not stop the United States from rebuilding its shipbuilding base and responding appropriately to China’s targeting of critical industrial sectors for dominance,” Greer said.
It’s far from the only example. Both sides have slapped special port fees on each other’s commercial vessels, which took effect last week. The US is also set to levy a 100% tariff on Chinese imports of essential port equipment and floated a 150% import tax on other cargo handling equipment. Trump has sought to minimize Chinese companies’ control of critical global ports, including around the Panama Canal.
Shipping is one of several points of contention in the China-US relationship that has kept global investors on edge in recent days. Beijing has tightened export controls on rare earths among other measures, while the US has expanded curbs on China’s access to chips and threatened the country with additional 100% tariffs.
Earlier Monday, President Donald Trump said he anticipated discussing China’s territorial ambitions regarding the self-governing island of Taiwan when he meets with his counterpart, Xi Jinping, next week at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in South Korea. The president sidestepped questions about whether he expected China to link trade concessions in exchange for Taiwan-related asks.
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
This article was generated from an automated news agency feed without modifications to text.
Get Latest real-time updates
Catch all the Business News , Corporate news , Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on Live Mint. Download The Mint News App to get Daily Market Updates.
More

Title   : Trump says India to pay ‘massive tariffs’ if it continues to buy Russian oil
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T05:56:47
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.407781
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/trump-says-india-to-pay-massive-tariffs-if-it-continues-to-buy-russian-oil/article70184444.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump said that India is going to pay “massive tariffs” if it continues to buy oil from Russia, while reiterating that he got assurance from Prime Minister Narendra Modi that New Delhi is going to halt its oil purchases from Moscow. Speaking to reporters onboard Air Force One, Trump said India will “continue to pay massive tariffs” if they do not cease buying oil from Russia, adding that “they (India) don't want to do that.” Trump was replying to a question about India’s recent remarks on oil purchases from Russia.
India last week said it is "broad-basing and diversifying" its sourcing of energy to meet market conditions, hours after Trump claimed that Modi assured him that New Delhi will stop procuring Russian crude oil.
Trump said he does not believe India made such remarks. “But I don't believe they said that. No, I spoke with Prime Minister Modi of India, and he said he's not going to be doing the Russian oil thing,” the US President added.
Washington has been maintaining that India is helping Putin to finance the war through its purchase of Russian crude oil.
The relations between New Delhi and Washington have been reeling under severe stress after Trump doubled tariffs on Indian goods to a whopping 50 per cent, including a 25 per cent additional duty for India's purchase of Russian crude oil.
India described the US action as "unfair, unjustified and unreasonable".
Published on October 20, 2025

Title   : Trump makes rare earths deal with Australia to fight China
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-21T04:15:20
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.407934
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/trump-makes-rare-earths-deal-with-australia-to-fight-china/article70185239.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump has signed a landmark pact with visiting Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese to boost America’s access to rare earths and other critical minerals, an effort to counter China’s tight grip on the supply chains of key metals.
The two governments will jointly invest in a swathe of mines and processing projects in Australia to boost production of commodities used in advanced technologies from electric vehicles to semiconductors and fighter planes. Australia has an $8.5 billion “pipeline that we have ready to go,” Albanese said at a meeting between the two leaders at the White House.
“In about a year from now, we’ll have so much critical mineral and rare earths that you won’t know what to do with them,” Trump said.
The US has been locked in a rare-earths tussle with China since Beijing fought back against Trump’s trade offensive earlier this year, imposing export curbs on the materials. It has since expanded those restrictions. The prospect of even tighter supply has injected momentum into an American push to build alternative production capacity, even as industry executives and analysts caution that replacing a vast network of mines and refining plants will not be swift.
The leaders said the agreement would include Australian processing of rare earths and other critical minerals, with Albanese adding that Australia had “capacity” to expand those efforts. The US and Australia pledged to protect their domestic markets from “unfair trade practices,” including through adopting trading standards that involve “price floors or similar measures,” according to the text of the deal circulated by Albanese’s office.
“This is the most significant bilateral minerals cooperation we have seen between two major Western countries,” Gracelin Baskaran, a critical minerals-focused director at the Center for Strategic and International Studies said by phone. “Today’s announcement really shows the US isn’t trying to address critical minerals alone. It’s looking to find the right partners.”
The deal, which prompted a surge in Australian rare earths and critical minerals stocks on Tuesday, will begin with the US and Australia each paying more than $1 billion over the next six months for initial projects, with some further projects in both countries, the Australian prime minister said. The document did not include details on which entities would provide that financing.
Rare earths are a subset of critical minerals, a wider group of core materials which in the US includes dozens of metals. Even before the recent export controls, China had already put restrictions on supplies of vital inputs including gallium, germanium and antimony.
The Pentagon will help fund the construction of the planned 100 tonne-a-year Alcoa-Sojitz gallium refinery in Western Australia as part of the deal, according to the White House. The Export-Import Bank of the United States is also issuing letters of interest for more than $2.2 billion in financing on critical mineral projects.
The sit-down, Albanese’s first White House visit since Trump returned to power, comes as the Australian leader looks to shore up ties with the US, using his nation’s mineral wealth as leverage. China’s rare-earth export restrictions have rattled economies across the globe, with US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent saying last week that allies — including Australia — are in talks about a united response.
Australia, which holds the world’s fourth-largest deposits of rare earths, has long sought to position itself as a viable alternative to China for supplies crucial for industries covering semiconductors, defence technology, renewable energy and other sectors. The country is also the base of the only producer of so-called heavy rare earths outside China, through Lynas Rare Earths Ltd.
Efforts to secure a deal were already underway ahead of Albanese’s visit. More than a dozen Australian mining firms held meetings last month in Washington with officials from various agencies and were told the US was looking for ways to obtain equity-like stakes in companies, according to people familiar with the talks, part of a broader American strategy to develop supply chains to compete with China.
Australian Treasurer Jim Chalmers met with US investors from firms including Blackstone Inc. and Blue Owl Capital in New York last week to pitch his country as a stable, resource-rich destination for global capital and a key partner in efforts to diversify critical supply chains.
There has been growing confidence that Australia and the US would begin discussions on how Canberra could provide secure rare earth shipments and bolster US capabilities. That belief has sparked investor enthusiasm, sending shares of miners such as Lynas up by over 150 per cent during the past 12 months.
Submarine sales
Trump on Monday said the two leaders were discussing “trade, submarines, lots of other military equipment,” with national security matters high on the agenda. The US president has pressed Canberra to increase defence spending to 3.5 per cent of gross domestic product from around 2 per cent now, a move Australia has so far resisted.
Australia agreed to purchase $1.2 billion in underwater drones and take delivery of a first tranche of Apache helicopters in a separate $2.6 billion deal, the White House said.
Another key issue is an arrangement for the US under the Aukus pact to sell Australia as many as five nuclear-powered Virginia-class submarines by the early 2030s. Australia and the UK would then design and build a next-generation submarine partly using American technology, due to be completed in the 2040s.
The Aukus agreement was signed by former US President Joe Biden’s team in 2021 to counter Chinese military expansion in the Indo-Pacific region. The submarine deal is central to the nations’ collective security agreement. The Trump administration, however, is reviewing the pact to determine if it is “aligned with the President’s America First agenda,” according to the Pentagon, raising fears that Trump could abandon it.
Officials from Australia and the UK, though, have downplayed that prospect. And Trump on Monday suggested that he planned to push forward with submarine sales.
“We are doing that,” Trump said in response to a question about expediting the sales. “We have the best submarines in the world, anywhere in the world, and we’re building a few more, currently under construction. And now we’re starting, we have it all set with Anthony.”
The US president also praised military cooperation between the two allies.
Still, Trump suggested he was unlikely to offer Australia tariff relief, which Canberra has sought as a nation that runs a trade deficit with the US. Trump hit Australian goods with a 10 per cent duty, the baseline the president imposed on many other countries’ products.
“Australia pays very low tariffs — very, very low tariffs,” Trump said.
Albanese faces a balancing act on trade as he meets Trump. The Australian leader has also sought closer trade ties with China, his country’s largest trading partner. Albanese visited Beijing in July, his second visit since taking office.
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
Published on October 21, 2025

Title   : Tata Trusts trustees differ over reappointment of Venu Srinivasan and Mehli Mistry
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T16:47:55
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.407996
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/tata-trusts-trustees-differ-over-reappointment-of-venu-srinivasan-and-mehli-mistry/article70185051.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
More differences have surfaced among the trustees of the Tata Trusts. This time it is over the upcoming reappointment of trustees Venu Srinivasan and Mehli Mistry, whose terms end on October 23 and 28, respectively.
Divisions among the trustees surfaced in September when four trustees—Mehli Mistry, Darius Khambatta, Jehangir H Jehangir and Pramit Jhaveri—opposed the renomination of another trustee, Vijay Singh, to the board of Tata Sons. Singh subsequently stepped down from the board of Tata Sons though he remains a trustee. Singh, Srinivasan and Noel Tata find themselves ranged against the other four named above.
A circular was sent to all trustees on Saturday about the expiry of the tenures of Srinivasan and Mistry. According to a source close to the trust, while the Mistry group believes that the reappointment is automatic as per a resolution passed in the trust board meeting a year ago, the other side insists that it is subject to voting by all trustees.
Incidentally, the said resolution passed in the board meeting on October 17 last year also stated that on reappointment, the trustee’s tenure will be permanent.
Here’s the resolution shared by a person close to the trusts: “The trustees recognised that they’re all equally responsible charged with public duty and specifically tasked by Mr. Ratan N Tata. To this end, they resolve that on the expiry of tenure of any trustee, that trustee will be reappointed by the concerned trust without any limit being attached to the period of tenure of such reappointment, and in accordance with law.”
A straight reading of the resolution would imply that Venu Srinivasan and Mehli Mistry are set to be reappointed to their existing positions. And when the reappointment happens this time, they will become permanent trustees.
But the other group, which counts Noel Tata, chairman of Tata Trusts in its midst, believes that any reappointment cannot be automatic and must be agreed upon by other trustees. This difference is likely to boil over this week even as it is understood that Mehli Mistry has already responded to the circular and pointed to last year’s resolution which does not specify voting.
While the trustees are battling it out amongst themselves, sources say they’re also wary about the squabble attracting the attention of the authorities and hence are unlikely to take recourse to the courts.
Published on October 20, 2025

Title   : India walks a tightrope with US, Russia ties on the line in pursuit of Trump deal
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T10:44:39
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.408064
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/economy/india-walks-a-tightrope-with-us-russia-ties-on-the-line-in-pursuit-of-trump-deal/article70184704.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
India is trying to find a way to maintain ties with both the US and Russia as it seeks to clinch a trade deal with President Donald Trump and bring down tariff rates of 50 per cent.
Trump said Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated India would stop buying oil from Russia, a key demand of the US president. Unlike previous denials, New Delhi’s response on Thursday was lukewarm. Without mentioning Trump or Russia, India signalled it would buy more US oil while continuing to secure supplies that are cost-effective for consumers.
The latest developments show Modi’s tricky balancing act between the US, India’s biggest export market, and Russia, a longstanding military and strategic partner. India imports about a third of its oil from Russia, and New Delhi has argued that a complete halt in purchases without access to other cheap sources would be unfeasible.
“India needs the trade deal with the US and it needs energy access at reasonable prices,” said Ashok Malik, a partner at the Asia Group. “Economic statecraft would require Indian diplomacy to achieve both. And that is what India’s trying to do.”
Indian refiners are expecting to reduce their purchases of Russian energy and buy more liquefied petroleum gas from the US, showing a willingness to work with Washington. A top trade official in New Delhi also said this week India could increase oil imports from the US by as much as $15 billion.
Trump had been publicly lambasting India for months for buying Russian oil, which he said was helping President Vladimir Putin fund his war in Ukraine, thereby undermining Western efforts to resolve the conflict.
The US leader took a more conciliatory approach this week, saying while Modi gave him assurances India would halt its purchases of Russian oil, it couldn’t do so immediately. India could also resume buying once the war is over, he said.
Modi and Trump have spoken at least twice in recent weeks, with the two leaders discussing progress on trade negotiations in their call last week. A team from New Delhi is currently in the US to discuss the trade deal, hoping to secure an agreement as early as next month, Bloomberg News reported earlier this week.
“The narrative has seen a sharp turnaround from where we were two months ago when it seemed like the talks have broken down,” said Shumita Deveshwar, chief economist at GlobalData.TS Lombard. “There’s definitely hope now that some sort of deal will be made.”
India became a major importer of Russian crude after the start of the war in Ukraine in 2022, and has been able to scoop up deliveries at discounts. Purchases of Russian oil fell slightly last month, but still made up one-third of India’s overall imports in spite of the US push to curb flows.
“I don’t expect a material drop in India’s Russian imports in the short term,” said Vandana Hari, the founder of Singapore-based market analysis firm Vanda Insights.
Trump’s announcement of another meeting with Putin is also being eagerly watched by the Indian government. Any potential thaw between the two major powers will give Modi greater flexibility in maintaining defense and energy partnerships with Moscow while deepening trade and strategic cooperation with Washington.
“Everyone is talking to everybody and that’s what diplomacy is about,” Asia Group’s Malik said. “And we are in a very volatile world where frankly it’s each one for himself.”
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
Published on October 20, 2025

Title   : Trump lists rare earths, fentanyl and soyabeans as the US’ top issues with China before trade talks between the two sides resume 
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T13:29:01
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.408113
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/trump-lists-rare-earths-fentanyl-and-soyabeans-as-the-us-top-issues-with-china-before-trade-talks-between-the-two-sides-resume/article70184902.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump listed rare earths, fentanyl and soyabeans as the US’s top issues with China just before the two sides return to the negotiating table and as a fragile trade truce nears expiration.
“I don’t want them to play the rare earth game with us,” Trump said on Air Force One on Sunday, as he headed back to Washington from Florida. Days earlier, the US leader threatened a 100 per cent tariff on Chinese shipments after Beijing vowed to exert broad controls on the minerals.
Trump also said the US wanted China “to stop with the fentanyl,” a reference to his accusation that Beijing has failed to curb the export of the drug and its precursor chemicals, contributing to the American opioid crisis. Another key demand was for the world’s No. 2 economy to resume soyabean purchases. The three topics were all “very, you know, normal things,” he added.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has said the US and China will hold talks later this week in Malaysia. That came after he met virtually with Vice Premier He Lifeng on Friday, discussions that Chinese state media described as a constructive exchange of views.
A little over a week ago, Trump raised the prospect of canceling his first in-person meeting with China’s President Xi Jinping since he returned to the White House, angry over the Chinese government’s vow to exert broad controls on rare-earth elements. He also declared a 100 per cent import surtax on Chinese goods to take effect November 1.
That threatens a trade truce that is set to run out on November 10 unless extended. Months of tentative stability in the US-China relationship have been upended in recent weeks after Washington broadened some tech restrictions and proposed levies on Chinese ships entering US ports. China responded with parallel moves and outlined tighter export controls on rare earths and other critical materials.
When asked in an interview with Fox News on Sunday about his latest threat to raise the tariff on Chinese goods, Trump said the levy was “not sustainable” though “it could stand.”
He added that he had a good relationship with the Chinese leader, and he expected a sitdown to happen in South Korea, where an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting starts later this month. “I think we’re going to be fine with China, but we have to have a fair deal. It’s got to be fair,” Trump said.
Soyabeans have been a key source of leverage for China in the trade dispute. Last year, China bought some $12.6 billion worth of the oilseed but this year none. China has instead turned to purchases from South America.
Frustrations among US farmers — key to his support base — are mounting, with many running out of storage for unsold beans and facing pressure from lower prices. They are eagerly awaiting aid from Washington, which is held up because of the government shutdown.
In August, Trump urged China to quadruple its buying of soyabeans from the US. Underscoring his frustration that it isn’t happening, last week he threatened to stop imports of cooking oil from China, which he accused of intentionally “causing difficulty for our soyabean farmers.”
The fentanyl issue has long been seen as an area the two sides could make progress, though it continues to bedevil ties.
Earlier this year, Trump imposed tariffs of 20 per cent on all Chinese goods over the flow of illegal fentanyl into the US. Those fees stack on top of his Liberation Day levies. In June, Beijing tightened controls over two chemicals that can be used to make the drug, but China has also repeatedly said it’s up to the US to fix its drug problem.
China has tried to ease concern over the escalation of curbs on rare earths — critical to making fighter jets, smartphones and even car seats — to soften an international backlash.
In discussions on the sidelines of the International Monetary Fund’s annual meetings last week, Chinese delegates told their counterparts from around the world that tightened export controls will not harm normal trade flows, Bloomberg News reported earlier, citing people familiar with the matter.
The officials said China sought to build a long-term mechanism with the measure, and it was introduced as a response to US provocations such as the expansion of sanctions to capture subsidiaries of blacklisted companies, according to the people, who asked not to be named because the exchanges were private.
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
Published on October 20, 2025

Title   : Tata Trusts reappoints Venu Srinivasan for life; focus now on Mehli Mistry’s renewal amid internal rift
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-21T09:43:17
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.408743
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/companies/tata-trusts-reappoints-venu-srinivasan-for-life-focus-now-on-mehli-mistrys-renewal-amid-internal-rift/article70185804.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tata Trusts has unanimously reappointed Venu Srinivasan as a trustee for life, and all eyes are now on the upcoming decision regarding Mehli Mistry’s renewal, amid reported internal divisions within the organisation.
The reappointment of Srinivasan this week, ahead of his term expiring on October 23, comes amid reports of a vertical split within Tata Trusts - with one faction said to align with Noel Tata, who took over as chairman following Ratan Tata’s death, and the other comprising those seen as loyalists of the former doyen.
A source with direct knowledge of the matter said reappointment of Srinivasan, chairman emeritus of TVS Group, was unanimous.
Tata Trusts declined to comment on the news.
Focus shifts to Mehli Mistry’s renewal
The focus now shifts to the reappointment of Mistry, whose term ends on October 28, with opinions divided on whether his continuation is automatic or requires unanimous approval from the trustees for a lifetime tenure.
Tata Trusts, the umbrella body overseeing several charitable trusts including the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and the Sir Ratan Tata Trust, holds a 66 per cent stake in Tata Sons - the holding company of the 156-year-old Tata Group, which comprises around 400 companies, including 30 listed entities.
“Renewal and fresh appointment is required to be unanimous as per past practice. Renewal, after which it will be for life, requires unanimous approval,” said a source.
October 17 resolution sparks debate
However, another person said, “The reappointment is automatic and it is applicable to all the trustees.” Citing minutes of the joint meeting of the trustees of the Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and the Sir Ratan Tata Trust held on October 17, 2024, the person said it was resolved that on the expiry of tenure of any trustee, the trustee would be reappointed by the concerned trust without any limit being attached to the period of tenure.
As per the resolution, any trustee who chose to vote otherwise would be in “breach of their commitment and is not fit and proper to serve on Tata Trusts by such conduct”, the person added.
Moreover, the person said if there is any breach of the commitment by a Trustee, it will necessitate the reopening of all resolutions passed by Tata Trusts, “including the appointment of Noel Tata as a director on the Board of Tata Sons, which formed part of the October 17, 2024 Trustees’ resolution”.
Also, according to the October 17, 2024 resolution, all trustees are appointed on a long-term and life basis and trusteeship would be revisited upon reaching 75 years of age.
Published on October 21, 2025

Title   : Trump outlines key demands for China ahead of trade talks
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T09:40:17
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.408876
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/trump-outlines-key-demands-for-china-ahead-of-trade-talks/article70184658.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
President Donald Trump listed rare earths, fentanyl and soybeans as the US’s top issues with China just before the two sides return to the negotiating table and as a fragile trade truce nears expiration.
“I don’t want them to play the rare earth game with us,” Trump said on Air Force One on Sunday as he headed back to Washington from Florida. Days earlier, the US leader threatened a 100% tariff on Chinese shipments after Beijing vowed to exert broad controls on the minerals.
Trump also said the US wanted China “to stop with the fentanyl,” a reference to his accusation that Beijing has failed to curb exports of the drug and its precursor chemicals, contributing to the American opioid crisis. Another key demand was for the world’s No. 2 economy to resume soybean purchases. The three topics were all “very, you know, normal things,” he added.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has said the US and China will hold talks later this week in Malaysia. That came after he met virtually with Vice Premier He Lifeng on Friday, discussions that Chinese state media described as a constructive exchange of views.
A little over a week ago, Trump raised the prospect of canceling his first in-person meeting with China’s President Xi Jinping since he returned to the White House, angry over the Chinese government’s vow to exert broad controls on rare-earth elements. He also declared the 100% import surtax would take effect Nov. 1.
That threatens a trade truce that is set to run out on Nov. 10 unless extended. Months of tentative stability in the US-China relationship have been upended in recent weeks after Washington broadened some tech restrictions and proposed levies on Chinese ships entering US ports. China responded with parallel moves and outlined tighter export controls on rare earths and other critical materials.
When asked in an interview with Fox News on Sunday about his latest threat to raise the tariff on Chinese goods, Trump said the levy was “not sustainable” though “it could stand.”
He added that he had a good relationship with the Chinese leader, and he expected a sitdown to happen in South Korea, where an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting starts later this month. “I think we’re going to be fine with China, but we have to have a fair deal. It’s got to be fair,” Trump said.
Soybeans have been a key source of leverage for China in the trade dispute. Last year, China bought some $12.6 billion worth of the oilseed but this year that figure is zero. China has instead turned to purchases from South America.
Frustrations among US farmers — key to his support base — are mounting, with many running out of storage for unsold beans and facing pressure from lower prices. They are eagerly awaiting aid from Washington, which is held up because of the government shutdown.
In August, Trump urged China to quadruple its buying of soybeans from the US. Underscoring his frustration that it isn’t happening, last week he threatened to stop imports of cooking oil from China, which he accused of intentionally “causing difficulty for our Soybean Farmers.”
The fentanyl issue has long been seen as an area where the two sides could make progress, though it still bedevils ties.
Earlier this year, Trump imposed tariffs of 20% on all Chinese goods over the flow of illegal fentanyl into the US. Those fees stack on top of his Liberation Day levies. In June, Beijing tightened controls over two chemicals that can be used to make the drug but China has also repeatedly said it is up to the US to fix its drug problem.
The three issues raised by Trump “are highly tangible and resonate with specific, powerful domestic constituencies in the US,” said Sun Chenghao, a fellow at the Center for International Security and Strategy at Tsinghua University in Beijing. “By focusing on these, Trump aims for quick, demonstrable victories that can be communicated easily to the public, rather than engaging in the protracted and technically complex negotiations required to alter China’s fundamental industrial model.”
When asked at a regular press briefing in Beijing on Monday about Trump’s remarks, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Guo Jiakun said that a “trade war does not serve the interests of either party, and both sides should negotiate and resolve relevant issues on the basis of equality, respect and mutual benefit.”
China has tried to ease concern over the escalation of curbs on rare earths — critical to making fighter jets, smartphones and even car seats — to soften an international backlash.
In discussions on the sidelines of the International Monetary Fund’s annual meetings last week, Chinese delegates told their counterparts from around the world that tightened export controls will not harm normal trade flows, Bloomberg News reported earlier, citing people familiar with the matter.
The officials said China sought to build a long-term mechanism with the measure, and it was introduced as a response to US provocations such as the expansion of sanctions to capture subsidiaries of blacklisted companies, according to the people, who asked not to be named because the exchanges were private.
--With assistance from Charlie Zhu.
(Updates with analyst comments.)
More stories like this are available on bloomberg.com
©2025 Bloomberg L.P.
Published on October 20, 2025

Title   : Trump's tariffs: What's in effect and what could be in store?
Source  : www.thehindubusinessline.com
Published: 2025-10-20T16:30:54
Fetched : 2025-10-21T10:38:38.409031
URL     : https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/news/world/trumps-tariffs-whats-in-effect-and-what-could-be-in-store/article70185019.ece
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
US President Donald Trump has launched a global trade war with an array of tariffs that target individual products and countries.
Trump has set a baseline tariff of 10 per cent on all imports to the United States, as well as additional duties on certain products or countries.
Here is a list of targeted tariffs he has implemented or threatened to put in place.
Country-specific tariffs
Afghanistan - 15 per cent
Algeria - 30 per cent
Angola - 15 per cent
Bangladesh - 20 per cent
Bolivia - 15 per cent
Bosnia and Herzegovina - 30 per cent
Botswana - 15 per cent
Brazil - 50 per cent for most goods
Brunei - 25 per cent
Cambodia - 19 per cent
Cameroon - 15 per cent
Canada - 10 per cent on energy products, 35 per cent for other products not covered by the US-Canada-Mexico Agreement
Chad - 15 per cent
China - 30 per cent, with additional tariffs on some products, until November 10. Trump has threatened to impose an additional 100 per cent
Costa Rica - 15 per cent
Cote d'Ivoire - 15 per cent
Democratic Republic of the Congo - 15 per cent
Ecuador - 15 per cent
Equatorial Guinea - 15 per cent
European Union - 15 per cent on most goods
Falkland Islands - 10 per cent
Fiji - 15% per cent
Ghana - 15 per cent
Guyana - 15 per cent
Iceland - 15 per cent
India - 50 per cent
Indonesia - 19 per cent
Iraq - 35 per cent
Israel - 15 per cent
Japan - 15 per cent
Jordan - 15 per cent
Kazakhstan - 25 per cent
Laos - 40 per cent
Lesotho - 15 per cent
Libya - 30 per cent
Liechtenstein - 15 per cent
Madagascar - 15 per cent
Malawi - 15 per cent
Malaysia - 19 per cent
Mauritius - 15 per cent
Mexico - 25 per cent for products not covered by USMCA
Moldova - 25 per cent
Mozambique - 15 per cent
Myanmar - 40 per cent
Namibia - 15 per cent
Nauru - 15 per cent
New Zealand - 15 per cent
Nicaragua - 18 per cent
Nigeria - 15 per cent
North Macedonia - 15 per cent
Norway - 15 per cent
Pakistan - 19 per cent
Papua New Guinea - 15 per cent
Philippines - 19 per cent
Serbia - 35 per cent
South Africa - 30 per cent
South Korea - 15 per cent
Sri Lanka - 20 per cent
Switzerland - 39 per cent
Syria - 41 per cent
Taiwan - 20 per cent
Thailand - 19 per cent
Trinidad and Tobago - 15 per cent
Tunisia - 25 per cent
Turkey - 15%
Uganda - 15 per cent
United Kingdom - 10 per cent, with some auto and metal imports exempt from higher global rates
Vanuatu - 15 per cent
Vietnam - 20 per cent for some products, 40 per cent on transshipments from third countries
Zambia - 15 per cent
Zimbabwe - 15 per cent
Product-specific tariffs
Steel and aluminum - 50 per cent
Autos and auto parts - 25 per cent
Copper pipes, tubes and other semi-finished products - 50 per cent
Wood products - 10 per cent on softwood timber and lumber, 25 per cent on kitchen cabinets, bathroom vanities and some upholstered wood products
Product-specific tariffs threatened but not in effect
Large vehicles - 25 per cent for medium and heavy-duty trucks and truck parts, 10 per cent for buses, to take effect November 1
Pharmaceuticals - 100 per cent
Semiconductors - 100 per cent
Movies - 100 per cent
Apple iPhones - 25 per cent
Published on October 20, 2025

